demo Details Story Dictionary demo demo Heisig's demo demo Koohii #1 demo Koohii #2 demo Primitives demo demo Kunyomi: demo Onyomi: demo Lesson: 1.0 Jouyou: demo JLPT Level: demo Compounds: demo	demo demo demo 画数1.0 demo Details Story Dictionary demo demo Heisig's demo demo Koohii #1 demo Koohii #2 demo Primitives demo demo Kunyomi: demo Onyomi: demo Lesson: 1.0 Jouyou: demo JLPT Level: demo Compounds: demo
"one Details Story Dictionary 一 one My Story One * As a primitive element, the key-word meaning is discarded, and the single horizontal stroke takes on the meaning of floor or ceiling, depending on its position: if it stands above another primitive, it means ceiling; if below, floor. Koohii #1 One down, 2041 to go. ;). Koohii #2 To learn this one kanji, I recommend (#2000) this story : Bambi is in a cave, eating a side-dish of salad when trying to learn the kanjis. As he succeed to learn the kanji for ""one"", you get jealous and decide to shoot him with a slingshot. At this moment you hear the police coming, so you hurriedly burn all the proofs into a fire (so you remove the key-words Bambi, slingshot and fire from recommend). So that when the police arrives, the only remaining clue is a single horizontal bar. Primitives One 一々(いちいち): one by one, separately 一概に(いちがいに): unconditionally, as a rule 一言(いちげん): single word 一見(いちげん): unfamiliar, never before met 一日(いちじつ): one day, first of month 一定(いちじょう): fixed, settled, definite, uniform, regularized, defined, standardized, certain, prescribed 一同(いちどう): all present, all concerned, all of us 一人(いちにん): one person 一部(いちぶ): one copy e.g. of a document, a part, partly, some 一部分(いちぶぶん): a part 一別(いちべつ): parting 一面(いちめん): one side, one phase, front page, the other hand, the whole surface 一目(いちもく): a glance, a look, a glimpse 一様(いちよう): uniformity, evenness, similarity, equality, impartiality 一律(いちりつ): evenness, uniformity, monotony, equality 一連(いちれん): a series, a chain, a ream (of paper) 一括(いっかつ): all together, batch, one lump, one bundle, summing up 一気(いっき): drink!(said repeatedly as a party cheer) 一挙に(いっきょに): at a stroke, with a single swoop 一切(いっさい): all, everything, without exception, the whole, entirely, absolutely 一心(いっしん): one mind, wholeheartedness, the whole heart 一帯(いったい): a region, a zone, the whole place 一敗(いっぱい): one defeat 一変(いっぺん): complete change, about-face 一昨日(おととい): day before yesterday 一昨年(おととし): year before last 一昨昨日(さきおととい): two days before yesterday 第一(だいいち): first, foremost, # 1 単一(たんいつ): single, simple, sole, individual, unitory 一寸(ちょっと): (ateji) (adv int) (uk) just a minute, a short time, a while, just a little, somewhat, easily, readily, rather 一向(ひたすら): earnestly 一息(ひといき): puffy, a breath, a pause, an effort 一頃(ひところ): once, some time ago 一筋(ひとすき): a line, earnestly, blindly, straightforwardly 一まず(ひとまず): for the present, once, in outline 一人でに(ひとりでに): by itself, automatically, naturally 一応(いちおう): once, tentatively, in outline, for the time being 一時(いちじ): one hour, short time, once, temporarily, at one time 一段と(いちだんと): greater, more, further, still more 一度に(いちどに): all at once 一流(いちりゅう): foremost, top-notch, unique 一家(いっか): house, home, a family, a household, one´s family, one´s folks, a style 一昨日(いっさくじつ): day before yesterday 一昨年(いっさくねん): year before last 一種(いっしゅ): species, kind, variety 一瞬(いっしゅん): moment, instant 一生(いっしょう): lifetime, all through life, generation, age, era, the whole world 一斉(いっせい): simultaneous 一層(いっそう): much more, still more, all the more 一体(いったい): one object, one body, generally, what on earth? really? 一旦(いったん): once, for a moment, one morning, temporarily 一致(いっち): coincidence, agreement, union, match, conformity, consistency, cooperation 一定(いってい): fixed, settled, definite, uniform, regularized, standardized, prescribed 一般(いっぱん): general, universal, ordinary, average, liberal 一方(いっぽう): one side, one way, one direction, one party, the other party, on the other hand, meanwhile, only, simple, in turn 統一(とういつ): unity, consolidation, uniformity, unification, compatible 同一(どういつ): identity, sameness, similarity, equality, fairness 一言(ひとこと): single word 一通り(ひととおり): ordinary, usual, in general, briefly 一休み(ひとやすみ): rest 一人一人(ひとりひとり): one by one, each, one at a time 万一(まんいち): by some chance, by some possibility, if by any chance, 10,000:1 odds 唯一(ゆいいつ): only, sole, unique 一度(いちど): once, one time 一生懸命(いっしょうけんめい): as well as one can, as hard as one can 一(いち): one 一日(いちにち): first of month 一番(いちばん): best, first, number one, a game, a round, a bout, a fall, an event (in a meet) 一緒(いっしょ): together, meeting, company 一日(ついたち): first day of month 一つ(ひとつ): one 一月(ひとつき): one month 一人(ひとり): one person Kunyomi: ひと-、ひと.つ Onyomi: イチ、イツ Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 一度 (いちど), 一座 (いちざ), 第一 (だいいち), 一 (ひと), 一つ (ひと.つ)"	"one 一 画数1 1 Details Story Dictionary 一 one My Story One * As a primitive element, the key-word meaning is discarded, and the single horizontal stroke takes on the meaning of floor or ceiling, depending on its position: if it stands above another primitive, it means ceiling; if below, floor. Koohii #1 One down, 2041 to go. ;). Koohii #2 To learn this one kanji, I recommend (#2000) this story : Bambi is in a cave, eating a side-dish of salad when trying to learn the kanjis. As he succeed to learn the kanji for ""one"", you get jealous and decide to shoot him with a slingshot. At this moment you hear the police coming, so you hurriedly burn all the proofs into a fire (so you remove the key-words Bambi, slingshot and fire from recommend). So that when the police arrives, the only remaining clue is a single horizontal bar. Primitives One 一々(いちいち): one by one, separately 一概に(いちがいに): unconditionally, as a rule 一言(いちげん): single word 一見(いちげん): unfamiliar, never before met 一日(いちじつ): one day, first of month 一定(いちじょう): fixed, settled, definite, uniform, regularized, defined, standardized, certain, prescribed 一同(いちどう): all present, all concerned, all of us 一人(いちにん): one person 一部(いちぶ): one copy e.g. of a document, a part, partly, some 一部分(いちぶぶん): a part 一別(いちべつ): parting 一面(いちめん): one side, one phase, front page, the other hand, the whole surface 一目(いちもく): a glance, a look, a glimpse 一様(いちよう): uniformity, evenness, similarity, equality, impartiality 一律(いちりつ): evenness, uniformity, monotony, equality 一連(いちれん): a series, a chain, a ream (of paper) 一括(いっかつ): all together, batch, one lump, one bundle, summing up 一気(いっき): drink!(said repeatedly as a party cheer) 一挙に(いっきょに): at a stroke, with a single swoop 一切(いっさい): all, everything, without exception, the whole, entirely, absolutely 一心(いっしん): one mind, wholeheartedness, the whole heart 一帯(いったい): a region, a zone, the whole place 一敗(いっぱい): one defeat 一変(いっぺん): complete change, about-face 一昨日(おととい): day before yesterday 一昨年(おととし): year before last 一昨昨日(さきおととい): two days before yesterday 第一(だいいち): first, foremost, # 1 単一(たんいつ): single, simple, sole, individual, unitory 一寸(ちょっと): (ateji) (adv int) (uk) just a minute, a short time, a while, just a little, somewhat, easily, readily, rather 一向(ひたすら): earnestly 一息(ひといき): puffy, a breath, a pause, an effort 一頃(ひところ): once, some time ago 一筋(ひとすき): a line, earnestly, blindly, straightforwardly 一まず(ひとまず): for the present, once, in outline 一人でに(ひとりでに): by itself, automatically, naturally 一応(いちおう): once, tentatively, in outline, for the time being 一時(いちじ): one hour, short time, once, temporarily, at one time 一段と(いちだんと): greater, more, further, still more 一度に(いちどに): all at once 一流(いちりゅう): foremost, top-notch, unique 一家(いっか): house, home, a family, a household, one´s family, one´s folks, a style 一昨日(いっさくじつ): day before yesterday 一昨年(いっさくねん): year before last 一種(いっしゅ): species, kind, variety 一瞬(いっしゅん): moment, instant 一生(いっしょう): lifetime, all through life, generation, age, era, the whole world 一斉(いっせい): simultaneous 一層(いっそう): much more, still more, all the more 一体(いったい): one object, one body, generally, what on earth? really? 一旦(いったん): once, for a moment, one morning, temporarily 一致(いっち): coincidence, agreement, union, match, conformity, consistency, cooperation 一定(いってい): fixed, settled, definite, uniform, regularized, standardized, prescribed 一般(いっぱん): general, universal, ordinary, average, liberal 一方(いっぽう): one side, one way, one direction, one party, the other party, on the other hand, meanwhile, only, simple, in turn 統一(とういつ): unity, consolidation, uniformity, unification, compatible 同一(どういつ): identity, sameness, similarity, equality, fairness 一言(ひとこと): single word 一通り(ひととおり): ordinary, usual, in general, briefly 一休み(ひとやすみ): rest 一人一人(ひとりひとり): one by one, each, one at a time 万一(まんいち): by some chance, by some possibility, if by any chance, 10,000:1 odds 唯一(ゆいいつ): only, sole, unique 一度(いちど): once, one time 一生懸命(いっしょうけんめい): as well as one can, as hard as one can 一(いち): one 一日(いちにち): first of month 一番(いちばん): best, first, number one, a game, a round, a bout, a fall, an event (in a meet) 一緒(いっしょ): together, meeting, company 一日(ついたち): first day of month 一つ(ひとつ): one 一月(ひとつき): one month 一人(ひとり): one person Kunyomi: ひと-、ひと.つ Onyomi: イチ、イツ Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 一度 (いちど), 一座 (いちざ), 第一 (だいいち), 一 (ひと), 一つ (ひと.つ)"
two Details Story Dictionary 二 two Heisig's Like the Roman numeral II, which reduplicates the numeral I, the kanji for two is a simple reduplication of the horizontal stroke that means one. The order of writing goes from above to below, with the first stroke slightly shorter. Koohii #1 Two lines. Koohii #2 Roman numeral II, written on its side. Primitives two 二人(ににん): two persons, two people, pair, couple 真っ二つ(まっぷたつ): in two equal parts 二(に): two 二十歳(はたち): 20 years old, 20th year 二十日(はつか): twenty days, twentieth day of the month 二つ(ふたつ): two 二人(ふたり): two persons, two people, pair, couple 二日(ふつか): second day of the month, two days Kunyomi: ふた、ふた.つ、ふたた.び Onyomi: ニ、ジ Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 二 (ふた), 二つ (ふた.つ)	two 二 画数2 2 Details Story Dictionary 二 two Heisig's Like the Roman numeral II, which reduplicates the numeral I, the kanji for two is a simple reduplication of the horizontal stroke that means one. The order of writing goes from above to below, with the first stroke slightly shorter. Koohii #1 Two lines. Koohii #2 Roman numeral II, written on its side. Primitives two 二人(ににん): two persons, two people, pair, couple 真っ二つ(まっぷたつ): in two equal parts 二(に): two 二十歳(はたち): 20 years old, 20th year 二十日(はつか): twenty days, twentieth day of the month 二つ(ふたつ): two 二人(ふたり): two persons, two people, pair, couple 二日(ふつか): second day of the month, two days Kunyomi: ふた、ふた.つ、ふたた.び Onyomi: ニ、ジ Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 二 (ふた), 二つ (ふた.つ)
"three Details Story Dictionary 三 three Heisig's And like the Roman numeral III, which triples the numeral I, the kanji for three simply triples the single horizontal stroke. In writing it, think of ""1 + 2 = 3"" (一 + 二 = 三) in order to keep the middle stroke shorter. Koohii #1 One + two = three. Koohii #2 THREE measurements define the female shape: BUST, WAIST, and HIPS. Waist is the smallest, and for most women the HIPS are wider than the chest. Primitives three 三味線(さみせん): three-stringed Japanese guitar, shamisen 三(み): (num) three 三日月(みかずき): new moon, crescent moon 再三(さいさん): again and again, repeatedly 三角(さんかく): triangle, triangular 三日月(みかづき): new moon, crescent moon 三日(みっか): three days, the third day (of the month) 三(さん): three 三つ(みっつ): three Kunyomi: み、み.つ、みっ.つ Onyomi: サン、ゾウ Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 三 (み), 三つ (み.つ), 三つ (みっ.つ)"	"three 三 画数3 3 Details Story Dictionary 三 three Heisig's And like the Roman numeral III, which triples the numeral I, the kanji for three simply triples the single horizontal stroke. In writing it, think of ""1 + 2 = 3"" (一 + 二 = 三) in order to keep the middle stroke shorter. Koohii #1 One + two = three. Koohii #2 THREE measurements define the female shape: BUST, WAIST, and HIPS. Waist is the smallest, and for most women the HIPS are wider than the chest. Primitives three 三味線(さみせん): three-stringed Japanese guitar, shamisen 三(み): (num) three 三日月(みかずき): new moon, crescent moon 再三(さいさん): again and again, repeatedly 三角(さんかく): triangle, triangular 三日月(みかづき): new moon, crescent moon 三日(みっか): three days, the third day (of the month) 三(さん): three 三つ(みっつ): three Kunyomi: み、み.つ、みっ.つ Onyomi: サン、ゾウ Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 三 (み), 三つ (み.つ), 三つ (みっ.つ)"
"four Details Story Dictionary 四 four Heisig's This character is composed of two primitive elements, mouth and human legs, both of which we will meet in the coming lessons. Assuming that you already knew how to write this kanji, we will pass over the ""story"" connected with it until later. Note how the second stroke is written left-to-right and then top-to-bottom. This is consistent with what we have already seen in the first three numbers and leads us to a general principle that will be helpful when we come to more complicated kanji later on: write north-to-south, west-to-east, northwest-to-southeast. Koohii #1 FOUR year-olds often put their FOOT (human legs) in their MOUTH - but they are too young to realize. Koohii #2 I imagine a giant devouring a human in four bites. First the giant bites off the person´s head, then he bites the torso, then from the waist to the knees, and finally the giant plucks up the remaining portion of the human legs into his mouth. See the fourth bite falling in there? Primitives four, pent in, human legs 四角(しかく): square 四角い(しかくい): square 四季(しき): four seasons 四捨五入(ししゃごにゅう): rounding up (especially fractions) 四つ角(よつかど): four corners, crossroads 四(よん): four, fourth, quadruple 四(し): four 四日(よっか): fourth day of the month, four days 四つ(よっつ): four Kunyomi: よ、よ.つ、よっ.つ、よん Onyomi: シ Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 四 (よ), 四つ (よ.つ), 四つ (よっ.つ), 四 (よん)"	"four 四 画数5 4 Details Story Dictionary 四 four Heisig's This character is composed of two primitive elements, mouth and human legs, both of which we will meet in the coming lessons. Assuming that you already knew how to write this kanji, we will pass over the ""story"" connected with it until later. Note how the second stroke is written left-to-right and then top-to-bottom. This is consistent with what we have already seen in the first three numbers and leads us to a general principle that will be helpful when we come to more complicated kanji later on: write north-to-south, west-to-east, northwest-to-southeast. Koohii #1 FOUR year-olds often put their FOOT (human legs) in their MOUTH - but they are too young to realize. Koohii #2 I imagine a giant devouring a human in four bites. First the giant bites off the person´s head, then he bites the torso, then from the waist to the knees, and finally the giant plucks up the remaining portion of the human legs into his mouth. See the fourth bite falling in there? Primitives four, pent in, human legs 四角(しかく): square 四角い(しかくい): square 四季(しき): four seasons 四捨五入(ししゃごにゅう): rounding up (especially fractions) 四つ角(よつかど): four corners, crossroads 四(よん): four, fourth, quadruple 四(し): four 四日(よっか): fourth day of the month, four days 四つ(よっつ): four Kunyomi: よ、よ.つ、よっ.つ、よん Onyomi: シ Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 四 (よ), 四つ (よ.つ), 四つ (よっ.つ), 四 (よん)"
"five Details Story Dictionary 五 five Heisig's As with four, we shall postpone learning the primitive elements that make up this character. Note how the general principle we just learned in the preceding frame applies to the writing of the character for five. Koohii #1 三 + two vertical lines = 5. Koohii #2 This Kanji looks like a ""3"" Kanji with two added vertical lines. 3+2= 5. Primitives five 五月蝿い(うるさい): noisy, loud, fussy 五十音(ごじゅうおん): the Japanese syllabary 四捨五入(ししゃごにゅう): rounding up (especially fractions) 五日(いつか): five days, the fifth day (of the month) 五つ(いつつ): five 五(ご): five Kunyomi: いつ、いつ.つ Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 五 (いつ), 五つ (いつ.つ)"	"five 五 画数4 5 Details Story Dictionary 五 five Heisig's As with four, we shall postpone learning the primitive elements that make up this character. Note how the general principle we just learned in the preceding frame applies to the writing of the character for five. Koohii #1 三 + two vertical lines = 5. Koohii #2 This Kanji looks like a ""3"" Kanji with two added vertical lines. 3+2= 5. Primitives five 五月蝿い(うるさい): noisy, loud, fussy 五十音(ごじゅうおん): the Japanese syllabary 四捨五入(ししゃごにゅう): rounding up (especially fractions) 五日(いつか): five days, the fifth day (of the month) 五つ(いつつ): five 五(ご): five Kunyomi: いつ、いつ.つ Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 五 (いつ), 五つ (いつ.つ)"
six Details Story Dictionary 六 six Heisig's The primitives here are top hat and animal legs. Once again, we glide over them until later. Koohii #1 Indicating 6 parts of the human body: head, body, 2 arms, 2 legs. Koohii #2 Six-Six-SIX ((666)) Mark of the Beast!! Imagine that dapper old beastly fellow summoning his top hat to himself. See it scamper over to him on a little pair of beastly legs. Primitives six, top hat, animal legs 六(む): (num) six 六日(むいか): six days, sixth (day of month) 六つ(むっつ): six 六(ろく): six Kunyomi: む、む.つ、むっ.つ、むい Onyomi: ロク、リク Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 六 (む), 六つ (む.つ), 六つ (むっ.つ)	six 六 画数4 6 Details Story Dictionary 六 six Heisig's The primitives here are top hat and animal legs. Once again, we glide over them until later. Koohii #1 Indicating 6 parts of the human body: head, body, 2 arms, 2 legs. Koohii #2 Six-Six-SIX ((666)) Mark of the Beast!! Imagine that dapper old beastly fellow summoning his top hat to himself. See it scamper over to him on a little pair of beastly legs. Primitives six, top hat, animal legs 六(む): (num) six 六日(むいか): six days, sixth (day of month) 六つ(むっつ): six 六(ろく): six Kunyomi: む、む.つ、むっ.つ、むい Onyomi: ロク、リク Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 六 (む), 六つ (む.つ), 六つ (むっ.つ)
"seven Details Story Dictionary 七 seven Heisig's Note that the first stroke ""cuts"" through the second. This distinguishes seven from the character for spoon (Frame 476), in which the horizontal stroke stops short. * As a primitive, this form takes on the meaning of diced, i.e., ""cut"" into little pieces, consistent both with the way the character is written and with its association with the kanji for cut to be learned in a later lesson (Frame 89). Koohii #1 This kanji is our good old seven, turned upside down. Koohii #2 I wrote it upside down so I crossed it out. Primitives seven, diced 七日(なのか): seven days, the seventh day (of the month) 七(しち): seven 七つ(ななつ): seven 七日(なのか): seven days, the seventh day of the month Kunyomi: なな、なな.つ、なの Onyomi: シチ Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 七 (なな), 七つ (なな.つ)"	"seven 七 画数2 7 Details Story Dictionary 七 seven Heisig's Note that the first stroke ""cuts"" through the second. This distinguishes seven from the character for spoon (Frame 476), in which the horizontal stroke stops short. * As a primitive, this form takes on the meaning of diced, i.e., ""cut"" into little pieces, consistent both with the way the character is written and with its association with the kanji for cut to be learned in a later lesson (Frame 89). Koohii #1 This kanji is our good old seven, turned upside down. Koohii #2 I wrote it upside down so I crossed it out. Primitives seven, diced 七日(なのか): seven days, the seventh day (of the month) 七(しち): seven 七つ(ななつ): seven 七日(なのか): seven days, the seventh day of the month Kunyomi: なな、なな.つ、なの Onyomi: シチ Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 七 (なな), 七つ (なな.つ)"
"eight Details Story Dictionary 八 eight Heisig's Just as the Arabic numeral ""8"" is composed of a small circle followed by a larger one, so the kanji for eight is composed of a short line followed by a longer line, slanting towards it but not touching it. And just as the ""lazy 8"" is the mathematical symbol for ""infinity,"" so the expanse opened up below these two strokes is associated by the Japanese with the sense of an infinite expanse or something ""all-encompassing."" Koohii #1 Hachi (eight) begins with the sound of the katakana ""ha"", and it´s approximately the same character. Koohii #2 The valcano hasn´t erupted for 8 years. Primitives eight お八(おやつ): (uk) between meal snack, afternoon refreshment, afternoon tea, mid-day snack 八(はち): eight 八百屋(やおや): greengrocer 八つ(やっつ): eight 八日(ようか): eight days, the eighth (day of the month) Kunyomi: や、や.つ、やっ.つ、よう Onyomi: ハチ Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 八 (や), 八つ (や.つ), 八つ (やっ.つ)"	"eight 八 画数2 8 Details Story Dictionary 八 eight Heisig's Just as the Arabic numeral ""8"" is composed of a small circle followed by a larger one, so the kanji for eight is composed of a short line followed by a longer line, slanting towards it but not touching it. And just as the ""lazy 8"" is the mathematical symbol for ""infinity,"" so the expanse opened up below these two strokes is associated by the Japanese with the sense of an infinite expanse or something ""all-encompassing."" Koohii #1 Hachi (eight) begins with the sound of the katakana ""ha"", and it´s approximately the same character. Koohii #2 The valcano hasn´t erupted for 8 years. Primitives eight お八(おやつ): (uk) between meal snack, afternoon refreshment, afternoon tea, mid-day snack 八(はち): eight 八百屋(やおや): greengrocer 八つ(やっつ): eight 八日(ようか): eight days, the eighth (day of the month) Kunyomi: や、や.つ、やっ.つ、よう Onyomi: ハチ Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 八 (や), 八つ (や.つ), 八つ (やっ.つ)"
nine Details Story Dictionary 九 nine Heisig's If you take care to remember the stroke order of this kanji, you will not have trouble later keeping it distinct from the kanji for power (Frame 922). * As a primitive, we shall use this kanji to mean baseball team or simply baseball. The meaning, of course, is derived from the nine players who make up a team. Koohii #1 Kinda of looks like the kanji of 1　一 with the kanji of 8 八added. So think of it as 　一＋八＝九. Koohii #2 Warning - naughty reminder A woman in the doggie style position, waiting for my NINE inches. Primitives nine, baseball 九(く): nine 九(きゅう): nine 九日(ここのか): nine days, the ninth day (of the month) 九つ(ここのつ): nine Kunyomi: ここの、ここの.つ Onyomi: キュウ、ク Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 九百 (きゅうひゃく), 三拝九拝 (さんはいきゅうはい), 九 (ここの), 九つ (ここの.つ)	nine 九 画数2 9 Details Story Dictionary 九 nine Heisig's If you take care to remember the stroke order of this kanji, you will not have trouble later keeping it distinct from the kanji for power (Frame 922). * As a primitive, we shall use this kanji to mean baseball team or simply baseball. The meaning, of course, is derived from the nine players who make up a team. Koohii #1 Kinda of looks like the kanji of 1　一 with the kanji of 8 八added. So think of it as 　一＋八＝九. Koohii #2 Warning - naughty reminder A woman in the doggie style position, waiting for my NINE inches. Primitives nine, baseball 九(く): nine 九(きゅう): nine 九日(ここのか): nine days, the ninth day (of the month) 九つ(ここのつ): nine Kunyomi: ここの、ここの.つ Onyomi: キュウ、ク Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 九百 (きゅうひゃく), 三拝九拝 (さんはいきゅうはい), 九 (ここの), 九つ (ここの.つ)
ten Details Story Dictionary 十 ten Heisig's Turn this character 45 degrees either way and you have the x used for the Roman numeral ten. * As a primitive, this character sometimes keeps its meaning of ten and sometimes signifies needle, this latter derived from the kanji for needle (Frame 292). Since the primitive is used in the kanji itself, there is no need to worry about confusing the two. In fact, we shall be following this procedure regularly. Koohii #1 Two needles crossing marks the spot, or you can use the Roman character for ten (rotated 45 degrees). Koohii #2 I scared away ten vampires with a single cross! Primitives ten, needle 十分(じっぷん): 10 minutes 十字路(じゅうじろ): crossroads 五十音(ごじゅうおん): the Japanese syllabary 十分(じゅうぶん): enough 十(じゅう): 10, ten 十(とお): 10, ten 十日(とおか): ten days, the tenth day of the month 二十歳(はたち): 20 years old, 20th year 二十日(はつか): twenty days, twentieth day of the month Kunyomi: とお、と Onyomi: ジュウ、ジッ、ジュッ Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 十字架 (じゅうじか), 十文字 (じゅうもんじ), 十 (と), 十 (とお)	ten 十 画数2 10 Details Story Dictionary 十 ten Heisig's Turn this character 45 degrees either way and you have the x used for the Roman numeral ten. * As a primitive, this character sometimes keeps its meaning of ten and sometimes signifies needle, this latter derived from the kanji for needle (Frame 292). Since the primitive is used in the kanji itself, there is no need to worry about confusing the two. In fact, we shall be following this procedure regularly. Koohii #1 Two needles crossing marks the spot, or you can use the Roman character for ten (rotated 45 degrees). Koohii #2 I scared away ten vampires with a single cross! Primitives ten, needle 十分(じっぷん): 10 minutes 十字路(じゅうじろ): crossroads 五十音(ごじゅうおん): the Japanese syllabary 十分(じゅうぶん): enough 十(じゅう): 10, ten 十(とお): 10, ten 十日(とおか): ten days, the tenth day of the month 二十歳(はたち): 20 years old, 20th year 二十日(はつか): twenty days, twentieth day of the month Kunyomi: とお、と Onyomi: ジュウ、ジッ、ジュッ Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 十字架 (じゅうじか), 十文字 (じゅうもんじ), 十 (と), 十 (とお)
"mouth Details Story Dictionary 口 mouth Heisig's Like several of the first characters we shall learn, the kanji for mouth is a clear pictograph. Since there are no circular shapes in the kanji, the square must be used to depict the circle. * As a primitive, this form also means mouth. Any of the range of possible images that the word suggests - an opening or entrance to a cave, a river, a bottle, or even the largest hole in your head - can be used for the primitive meaning. Koohii #1 Looks like a huge open mouth. Koohii #2 Momma used to say: ""Keep your trap shut!"" This thing is shaped like a trap door. Primitives mouth 悪口(あっこう): abuse, insult, slander, evil speaking 甘口(あまくち): sweet flavour, mildness, flattery, stupidity 入口(いりくち): entrance, gate, approach, mouth 口ずさむ(くちずさむ): to hum something, to sing to oneself 口述(こうじゅつ): verbal statement 口頭(こうとう): oral 出入り口(でいりぐち): exit and entrance 閉口(へいこう): shut mouth 無口(むくち): reticence 裏口(うらぐち): back door, rear entrance 火口(かこう): crater 口紅(くちべに): lipstick 口実(こうじつ): excuse 蛇口(じゃぐち): faucet, tap 早口(はやくち): fast-talking 窓口(まどぐち): ticket window 利口(りこう): clever, shrewd, bright, sharp, wise, intelligent 悪口(わるくち): abuse, insult, slander, evil speaking 人口(じんこう): population 入口(いりぐち): entrance, gate, approach, mouth 口(くち): mouth, orifice, opening 出口(でぐち): exit, gateway, way out, outlet, leak, vent Kunyomi: くち Onyomi: コウ、ク Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 口述 (こうじゅつ), 人口 (じんこう), 開口 (かいこう), 口 (くち)"	"mouth 口 画数3 11 Details Story Dictionary 口 mouth Heisig's Like several of the first characters we shall learn, the kanji for mouth is a clear pictograph. Since there are no circular shapes in the kanji, the square must be used to depict the circle. * As a primitive, this form also means mouth. Any of the range of possible images that the word suggests - an opening or entrance to a cave, a river, a bottle, or even the largest hole in your head - can be used for the primitive meaning. Koohii #1 Looks like a huge open mouth. Koohii #2 Momma used to say: ""Keep your trap shut!"" This thing is shaped like a trap door. Primitives mouth 悪口(あっこう): abuse, insult, slander, evil speaking 甘口(あまくち): sweet flavour, mildness, flattery, stupidity 入口(いりくち): entrance, gate, approach, mouth 口ずさむ(くちずさむ): to hum something, to sing to oneself 口述(こうじゅつ): verbal statement 口頭(こうとう): oral 出入り口(でいりぐち): exit and entrance 閉口(へいこう): shut mouth 無口(むくち): reticence 裏口(うらぐち): back door, rear entrance 火口(かこう): crater 口紅(くちべに): lipstick 口実(こうじつ): excuse 蛇口(じゃぐち): faucet, tap 早口(はやくち): fast-talking 窓口(まどぐち): ticket window 利口(りこう): clever, shrewd, bright, sharp, wise, intelligent 悪口(わるくち): abuse, insult, slander, evil speaking 人口(じんこう): population 入口(いりぐち): entrance, gate, approach, mouth 口(くち): mouth, orifice, opening 出口(でぐち): exit, gateway, way out, outlet, leak, vent Kunyomi: くち Onyomi: コウ、ク Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 口述 (こうじゅつ), 人口 (じんこう), 開口 (かいこう), 口 (くち)"
"day Details Story Dictionary 日 day Heisig's This kanji is intended to be a pictograph of the sun. Recalling what we said in the previous frame about round forms, it is easy to detect the circle and the big smile that characterize our simplest drawings of the sun - like those yellow badges with the words, ""Have a nice day!"" * Used as a primitive, this kanji can mean sun or day or a tongue wagging in the mouth. This latter meaning, incidentally, derives from an old character outside the standard list meaning something like ""sayeth"" and written almost exactly the same, except that the stroke in the middle does not touch the right side (Frame 620). Koohii #1 Open the window, new day. Koohii #2 Picture two halves of a 24-hr period: Day & Night. Primitives day, sun 悪日(あくび): unlucky day 明後日(あさって): day after tomorrow 明日(あした): tomorrow 一日(いちじつ): one day, first of month 一昨日(おととい): day before yesterday 日付(かづけ): date, dating 月日(がっぴ): (the) date 期日(きじつ): fixed date, settlement date 今日は(こんにちは): hello, good day (daytime greeting id) 一昨昨日(さきおととい): two days before yesterday 明々後日(しあさって): two days after tomorrow 終日(しゅうじつ): all day 七日(なのか): seven days, the seventh day (of the month) 西日(にしび): westering sun 日夜(にちや): day and night, always 日当(にっとう): daily allowance 日頃(ひごろ): normally, habitually 日取り(ひどり): fixed date, appointed day 日向(ひなた): sunny place, in the sun 日の丸(ひのまる): the Japanese flag 日々(ひび): every day, daily, day after day 日焼け(ひやけ): sunburn 三日月(みかずき): new moon, crescent moon 連日(れんじつ): every day, prolonged 一昨日(いっさくじつ): day before yesterday 今日(こんにち): today 祭日(さいじつ): national holiday, festival day 祝日(しゅくじつ): national holiday 生年月日(せいねんがっぴ): birth date 先日(せんじつ): the other day, a few days ago 月日(つきひ): (the) date 定休日(ていきゅうび): regular holiday 当日(とうじつ): appointed day 日(にち): Japan-, Japanese- 日時(にちじ): date and time 日常(にちじょう): ordinary, regular, everyday, usual 日用品(にちようひん): daily necessities 日課(にっか): daily lesson, daily work, daily routine 日光(にっこう): sunlight 日中(にっちゅう): daytime, during the day, Sino-Japanese 日程(にってい): agenda 日当たり(ひあたり): exposure to the sun, sunny place 日帰り(ひがえり): day trip 日陰(ひかげ): shadow 日付(ひづけ): date 日日(ひにち): every day, daily, day after day 日の入り(ひのいり): sunset 日の出(ひので): sunrise 平日(へいじつ): weekday, ordinary days 三日月(みかづき): new moon, crescent moon 三日(みっか): three days, the third day (of the month) 明後日(みょうごにち): day after tomorrow 夕日(ゆうひ): setting sun 曜日(ようび): day of the week 来日(らいにち): arrival in Japan, coming to Japan, visit to Japan 明日(あす): tomorrow 日記(にっき): diary 日(ひ): day 一日(いちにち): first of month 五日(いつか): five days, the fifth day (of the month) 火曜日(かようび): Tuesday 金曜日(きんようび): Friday 昨日(きのう): yesterday 今日(きょう): today, this day 月曜日(げつようび): Monday 九日(ここのか): nine days, the ninth day (of the month) 水曜日(すいようび): Wednesday 誕生日(たんじょうび): birthday 一日(ついたち): first day of month 十日(とおか): ten days, the tenth day of the month 土曜日(どようび): Saturday 七日(なのか): seven days, the seventh day of the month 日曜日(にちようび): Sunday 二十日(はつか): twenty days, twentieth day of the month 二日(ふつか): second day of the month, two days 毎日(まいにち): every day 六日(むいか): six days, sixth (day of month) 木曜日(もくようび): Thursday 八日(ようか): eight days, the eighth (day of the month) 四日(よっか): fourth day of the month, four days Kunyomi: ひ、-び、-か Onyomi: ニチ、ジツ Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 日時 (にちじ), 日光 (にっこう), 毎日 (まいにち), 日 (か), 日 (ひ)"	"day 日 画数4 12 Details Story Dictionary 日 day Heisig's This kanji is intended to be a pictograph of the sun. Recalling what we said in the previous frame about round forms, it is easy to detect the circle and the big smile that characterize our simplest drawings of the sun - like those yellow badges with the words, ""Have a nice day!"" * Used as a primitive, this kanji can mean sun or day or a tongue wagging in the mouth. This latter meaning, incidentally, derives from an old character outside the standard list meaning something like ""sayeth"" and written almost exactly the same, except that the stroke in the middle does not touch the right side (Frame 620). Koohii #1 Open the window, new day. Koohii #2 Picture two halves of a 24-hr period: Day & Night. Primitives day, sun 悪日(あくび): unlucky day 明後日(あさって): day after tomorrow 明日(あした): tomorrow 一日(いちじつ): one day, first of month 一昨日(おととい): day before yesterday 日付(かづけ): date, dating 月日(がっぴ): (the) date 期日(きじつ): fixed date, settlement date 今日は(こんにちは): hello, good day (daytime greeting id) 一昨昨日(さきおととい): two days before yesterday 明々後日(しあさって): two days after tomorrow 終日(しゅうじつ): all day 七日(なのか): seven days, the seventh day (of the month) 西日(にしび): westering sun 日夜(にちや): day and night, always 日当(にっとう): daily allowance 日頃(ひごろ): normally, habitually 日取り(ひどり): fixed date, appointed day 日向(ひなた): sunny place, in the sun 日の丸(ひのまる): the Japanese flag 日々(ひび): every day, daily, day after day 日焼け(ひやけ): sunburn 三日月(みかずき): new moon, crescent moon 連日(れんじつ): every day, prolonged 一昨日(いっさくじつ): day before yesterday 今日(こんにち): today 祭日(さいじつ): national holiday, festival day 祝日(しゅくじつ): national holiday 生年月日(せいねんがっぴ): birth date 先日(せんじつ): the other day, a few days ago 月日(つきひ): (the) date 定休日(ていきゅうび): regular holiday 当日(とうじつ): appointed day 日(にち): Japan-, Japanese- 日時(にちじ): date and time 日常(にちじょう): ordinary, regular, everyday, usual 日用品(にちようひん): daily necessities 日課(にっか): daily lesson, daily work, daily routine 日光(にっこう): sunlight 日中(にっちゅう): daytime, during the day, Sino-Japanese 日程(にってい): agenda 日当たり(ひあたり): exposure to the sun, sunny place 日帰り(ひがえり): day trip 日陰(ひかげ): shadow 日付(ひづけ): date 日日(ひにち): every day, daily, day after day 日の入り(ひのいり): sunset 日の出(ひので): sunrise 平日(へいじつ): weekday, ordinary days 三日月(みかづき): new moon, crescent moon 三日(みっか): three days, the third day (of the month) 明後日(みょうごにち): day after tomorrow 夕日(ゆうひ): setting sun 曜日(ようび): day of the week 来日(らいにち): arrival in Japan, coming to Japan, visit to Japan 明日(あす): tomorrow 日記(にっき): diary 日(ひ): day 一日(いちにち): first of month 五日(いつか): five days, the fifth day (of the month) 火曜日(かようび): Tuesday 金曜日(きんようび): Friday 昨日(きのう): yesterday 今日(きょう): today, this day 月曜日(げつようび): Monday 九日(ここのか): nine days, the ninth day (of the month) 水曜日(すいようび): Wednesday 誕生日(たんじょうび): birthday 一日(ついたち): first day of month 十日(とおか): ten days, the tenth day of the month 土曜日(どようび): Saturday 七日(なのか): seven days, the seventh day of the month 日曜日(にちようび): Sunday 二十日(はつか): twenty days, twentieth day of the month 二日(ふつか): second day of the month, two days 毎日(まいにち): every day 六日(むいか): six days, sixth (day of month) 木曜日(もくようび): Thursday 八日(ようか): eight days, the eighth (day of the month) 四日(よっか): fourth day of the month, four days Kunyomi: ひ、-び、-か Onyomi: ニチ、ジツ Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 日時 (にちじ), 日光 (にっこう), 毎日 (まいにち), 日 (か), 日 (ひ)"
"month Details Story Dictionary 月 month Heisig's This character is actually a picture of the moon, with the two horizontal lines representing the left eye and mouth of the mythical ""man in the moon."" (Actually, the Japanese see a hare in the moon, but it is a little farfetched to find one in the kanji.) And one month, of course, is one cycle of the moon. * As a primitive element, this character can take on the sense of moon, flesh, or part of the body. The reasons for the latter two meanings will be explained in a later chapter. Koohii #1 A month is longer than a day. Koohii #2 Am I the only one who sees this as someone sticking their ass in the air ""mooning"" someone (two cheeks of the butt and the legs coming off of it)? The Moon meaning connects well to the meaning of month, considering that months were traditionally measured by the phases of the moon. Also, the mooning ""ass"" part of it connects well to Hesig´s seemingly unconnected ""flesh"" or ""part of the body"" meaning (when used in primitive form). Primitives month, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 五月蝿い(うるさい): noisy, loud, fussy ヶ月(かげつ): (number of) months 月日(がっぴ): (the) date 月謝(げっしゃ): monthly tuition fee 月賦(げっぷ): monthly installment 月曜(げつよう): Monday 月並み(つきなみ): every month, common 満月(まんげつ): full moon 三日月(みかずき): new moon, crescent moon 月給(げっきゅう): monthly salary 月末(げつまつ): end of the month 再来月(さらいげつ): month after next 生年月日(せいねんがっぴ): birth date 先々月(せんせんげつ): month before last 月(つき): month, moon 月日(つきひ): (the) date 年月(としつき): months and years 年月(ねんげつ): months and years 三日月(みかづき): new moon, crescent moon さ来月(さらいげつ): the month after next 月曜日(げつようび): Monday 今月(こんげつ): this month 先月(せんげつ): last month 一月(ひとつき): one month 毎月(まいげつ): every month, each month, monthly 来月(らいげつ): next month Kunyomi: つき Onyomi: ゲツ、ガツ Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 月曜 (げつよう), 明月 (めいげつ), 歳月 (さいげつ), 月 (つき)"	"month 月 画数4 13 Details Story Dictionary 月 month Heisig's This character is actually a picture of the moon, with the two horizontal lines representing the left eye and mouth of the mythical ""man in the moon."" (Actually, the Japanese see a hare in the moon, but it is a little farfetched to find one in the kanji.) And one month, of course, is one cycle of the moon. * As a primitive element, this character can take on the sense of moon, flesh, or part of the body. The reasons for the latter two meanings will be explained in a later chapter. Koohii #1 A month is longer than a day. Koohii #2 Am I the only one who sees this as someone sticking their ass in the air ""mooning"" someone (two cheeks of the butt and the legs coming off of it)? The Moon meaning connects well to the meaning of month, considering that months were traditionally measured by the phases of the moon. Also, the mooning ""ass"" part of it connects well to Hesig´s seemingly unconnected ""flesh"" or ""part of the body"" meaning (when used in primitive form). Primitives month, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 五月蝿い(うるさい): noisy, loud, fussy ヶ月(かげつ): (number of) months 月日(がっぴ): (the) date 月謝(げっしゃ): monthly tuition fee 月賦(げっぷ): monthly installment 月曜(げつよう): Monday 月並み(つきなみ): every month, common 満月(まんげつ): full moon 三日月(みかずき): new moon, crescent moon 月給(げっきゅう): monthly salary 月末(げつまつ): end of the month 再来月(さらいげつ): month after next 生年月日(せいねんがっぴ): birth date 先々月(せんせんげつ): month before last 月(つき): month, moon 月日(つきひ): (the) date 年月(としつき): months and years 年月(ねんげつ): months and years 三日月(みかづき): new moon, crescent moon さ来月(さらいげつ): the month after next 月曜日(げつようび): Monday 今月(こんげつ): this month 先月(せんげつ): last month 一月(ひとつき): one month 毎月(まいげつ): every month, each month, monthly 来月(らいげつ): next month Kunyomi: つき Onyomi: ゲツ、ガツ Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 月曜 (げつよう), 明月 (めいげつ), 歳月 (さいげつ), 月 (つき)"
rice field Details Story Dictionary 田 rice field Heisig's Another pictograph, this kanji looks like a bird's-eye view of a rice field divided into four plots. Be careful when writing this character to get the order of the strokes correct. You will find that it follows perfectly the principle stated in frame 4. * When used as a primitive element, the meaning of rice field is most common, but now and again it will take the meaning of brains from the fact that it looks a bit like that tangle of gray matter nestled under our skulls. Koohii #1 A rice field divided into four parts. Koohii #2 Ten people use their mouths to eat the yield of the rice fields. Primitives rice field, brains 水田(すいでん): (water-filled) paddy field 田園(でんえん): country, rural districts 田(た): rice field 田植え(たうえ): rice planting 田ぼ(たんぼ): paddy field, farm 田舎(いなか): the country, country side Kunyomi: た Onyomi: デン Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 田 (た)	rice field 田 画数5 14 Details Story Dictionary 田 rice field Heisig's Another pictograph, this kanji looks like a bird's-eye view of a rice field divided into four plots. Be careful when writing this character to get the order of the strokes correct. You will find that it follows perfectly the principle stated in frame 4. * When used as a primitive element, the meaning of rice field is most common, but now and again it will take the meaning of brains from the fact that it looks a bit like that tangle of gray matter nestled under our skulls. Koohii #1 A rice field divided into four parts. Koohii #2 Ten people use their mouths to eat the yield of the rice fields. Primitives rice field, brains 水田(すいでん): (water-filled) paddy field 田園(でんえん): country, rural districts 田(た): rice field 田植え(たうえ): rice planting 田ぼ(たんぼ): paddy field, farm 田舎(いなか): the country, country side Kunyomi: た Onyomi: デン Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 田 (た)
eye Details Story Dictionary 目 eye Heisig's Here again, if we round out the corners of this kanji and curve the middle strokes upwards and downwards respectively, we get something resembling an eye. * As a primitive, the kanji keeps its sense of eye, or more specifically, an eyeball. When placed in the surroundings of a complex kanji, the primitive will sometimes be turned on its side. Koohii #1 There are 3 sections. Imagine the outer two being the whites of your eye. The middle is the pupil. Fill it in with imaginary color. Koohii #2 目_目. Primitives eye 一目(いちもく): a glance, a look, a glimpse お目出度う(おめでとう): (ateji) (int) (uk) Congratulations!, an auspicious occasion! 効き目(ききめ): effect, virtue, efficacy, impression 生真面目(きまじめ): too serious, person who is too serious, honesty, sincerity 切れ目(きれめ): break, pause, gap, end, rift, interruption, cut, section, notch, incision, end (of a task) 人目(じんもく): glimpse, public gaze 着目(ちゃくもく): attention 丁目(ちょうめ): district of a town, city block (of irregular size) 継ぎ目(つぎめ): a joint, joining point 出鱈目(でたらめ): irresponsible utterance, nonsense, nonsensical, random, haphazard, unsystematic 番目(ばんめ): cardinal number suffix 目蓋(まぶた): eyelid 目方(めかた): weight 目覚しい(めざましい): brilliant, splendid, striking, remarkable 目覚める(めざめる): to wake up 目付き(めつき): look, expression of the eyes, eyes 目眩(めまい): dizziness, giddiness 目盛(めもり): scale, gradations 面目(めんぼく): face, honour, reputation, prestige, dignity, credit 目録(もくろく): catalogue, catalog, list 目論見(もくろみ): a plan, a scheme, a project, a program, intention, goal お目に掛かる(おめにかかる): to see or meet someone 科目(かもく): (school) subject, curriculum, course 項目(こうもく): item 駄目(だめ): no, no good, hopeless 注目(ちゅうもく): notice, attention, observation 真面目(まじめ): diligent, serious, honest 目上(めうえ): superior(s), senior 目指す(めざす): aim at, have an eye on 目覚し(めざまし): alarm clock (abbreviation) 目下(めした): subordinate(s), inferior(s), junior 目印(めじるし): mark, sign, landmark 目立つ(めだつ): be conspicuous, stand out 目安(めやす): criterion, aim 目次(もくじ): table of contents 目的(もくてき): purpose, goal, aim, objective, intention 目標(もくひょう): mark, objective, target 役目(やくめ): duty, business 目(め): eye, eyeball Kunyomi: め、-め、ま- Onyomi: モク、ボク Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 目的 (もくてき), 目前 (もくぜん), 項目 (こうもく), 目 (め)	eye 目 画数5 15 Details Story Dictionary 目 eye Heisig's Here again, if we round out the corners of this kanji and curve the middle strokes upwards and downwards respectively, we get something resembling an eye. * As a primitive, the kanji keeps its sense of eye, or more specifically, an eyeball. When placed in the surroundings of a complex kanji, the primitive will sometimes be turned on its side. Koohii #1 There are 3 sections. Imagine the outer two being the whites of your eye. The middle is the pupil. Fill it in with imaginary color. Koohii #2 目_目. Primitives eye 一目(いちもく): a glance, a look, a glimpse お目出度う(おめでとう): (ateji) (int) (uk) Congratulations!, an auspicious occasion! 効き目(ききめ): effect, virtue, efficacy, impression 生真面目(きまじめ): too serious, person who is too serious, honesty, sincerity 切れ目(きれめ): break, pause, gap, end, rift, interruption, cut, section, notch, incision, end (of a task) 人目(じんもく): glimpse, public gaze 着目(ちゃくもく): attention 丁目(ちょうめ): district of a town, city block (of irregular size) 継ぎ目(つぎめ): a joint, joining point 出鱈目(でたらめ): irresponsible utterance, nonsense, nonsensical, random, haphazard, unsystematic 番目(ばんめ): cardinal number suffix 目蓋(まぶた): eyelid 目方(めかた): weight 目覚しい(めざましい): brilliant, splendid, striking, remarkable 目覚める(めざめる): to wake up 目付き(めつき): look, expression of the eyes, eyes 目眩(めまい): dizziness, giddiness 目盛(めもり): scale, gradations 面目(めんぼく): face, honour, reputation, prestige, dignity, credit 目録(もくろく): catalogue, catalog, list 目論見(もくろみ): a plan, a scheme, a project, a program, intention, goal お目に掛かる(おめにかかる): to see or meet someone 科目(かもく): (school) subject, curriculum, course 項目(こうもく): item 駄目(だめ): no, no good, hopeless 注目(ちゅうもく): notice, attention, observation 真面目(まじめ): diligent, serious, honest 目上(めうえ): superior(s), senior 目指す(めざす): aim at, have an eye on 目覚し(めざまし): alarm clock (abbreviation) 目下(めした): subordinate(s), inferior(s), junior 目印(めじるし): mark, sign, landmark 目立つ(めだつ): be conspicuous, stand out 目安(めやす): criterion, aim 目次(もくじ): table of contents 目的(もくてき): purpose, goal, aim, objective, intention 目標(もくひょう): mark, objective, target 役目(やくめ): duty, business 目(め): eye, eyeball Kunyomi: め、-め、ま- Onyomi: モク、ボク Lesson: 1 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 目的 (もくてき), 目前 (もくぜん), 項目 (こうもく), 目 (め)
"old Details Story Dictionary 古 old Heisig's The primitive elements that compose this character are ten and mouth, but you may find it easier to remember it as a pictograph of a tombstone with a cross on top. Just think back to one of those graveyards you have visited, or better still, used to play in as a child, with old inscriptions on the tombstones. This departure from the primitive elements in favor of a pictograph will take place now and again at these early stages, and almost never after that. So you need not worry about cluttering up your memory with too many character ""drawings."" * Used as a primitive element, this kanji keeps its key-word sense of old, but care should be taken to make that abstract notion as graphic as possible. Koohii #1 Tombstone and cross on an old man´s grave. Koohii #2 You get OLD fast if you have ten open mouths to feed. Primitives old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 古(いにしえ): antiquity, ancient times 考古学(こうこがく): archaeology 古代(こだい): ancient times 稽古(けいこ): practice, training, study 古典(こてん): old book, classic, classics 中古(ちゅうこ): used, second-hand, old, Middle Ages 古い(ふるい): old (not person), aged, ancient, antiquated, stale, threadbare, outmoded, obsolete article Kunyomi: ふる.い、ふる-、-ふる.す Onyomi: コ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 古い (ふる.い), 古す (ふる.す)"	"old 古 画数5 16 Details Story Dictionary 古 old Heisig's The primitive elements that compose this character are ten and mouth, but you may find it easier to remember it as a pictograph of a tombstone with a cross on top. Just think back to one of those graveyards you have visited, or better still, used to play in as a child, with old inscriptions on the tombstones. This departure from the primitive elements in favor of a pictograph will take place now and again at these early stages, and almost never after that. So you need not worry about cluttering up your memory with too many character ""drawings."" * Used as a primitive element, this kanji keeps its key-word sense of old, but care should be taken to make that abstract notion as graphic as possible. Koohii #1 Tombstone and cross on an old man´s grave. Koohii #2 You get OLD fast if you have ten open mouths to feed. Primitives old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 古(いにしえ): antiquity, ancient times 考古学(こうこがく): archaeology 古代(こだい): ancient times 稽古(けいこ): practice, training, study 古典(こてん): old book, classic, classics 中古(ちゅうこ): used, second-hand, old, Middle Ages 古い(ふるい): old (not person), aged, ancient, antiquated, stale, threadbare, outmoded, obsolete article Kunyomi: ふる.い、ふる-、-ふる.す Onyomi: コ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 古い (ふる.い), 古す (ふる.す)"
"I Details Story Dictionary 吾 I Heisig's There are actually a number of kanji for the word I, but the others tend to be more specific than this one. The key word here should be taken in the general psychological sense of the ""perceiving subject."" Now the one place in our bodies that all five senses are concentrated in is the head, which has no less than five mouths: 2 nostrils, 2 ears, and 1 mouth. Hence, five mouths = I. Koohii #1 I have 5 senses. Koohii #2 I eat five times at day. Primitives I, five, mouth Kunyomi: われ、わが-、あ- Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"I 吾 画数7 17 Details Story Dictionary 吾 I Heisig's There are actually a number of kanji for the word I, but the others tend to be more specific than this one. The key word here should be taken in the general psychological sense of the ""perceiving subject."" Now the one place in our bodies that all five senses are concentrated in is the head, which has no less than five mouths: 2 nostrils, 2 ears, and 1 mouth. Hence, five mouths = I. Koohii #1 I have 5 senses. Koohii #2 I eat five times at day. Primitives I, five, mouth Kunyomi: われ、わが-、あ- Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:"
risk Details Story Dictionary 冒 risk My Story It is risky to see the sun through naked eye. Koohii #1 Don´t look at the sun directly with your eyes, it´s risky! Koohii #2 You´ll risk your eyesight if you look up at the sun. Primitives risk, sun, day, eye 冒頭(ぼうとう): beginning, start, outset 冒険(ぼうけん): risk, venture, adventure Kunyomi: おか.す Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 冒す (おか.す)	risk 冒 画数9 18 Details Story Dictionary 冒 risk My Story It is risky to see the sun through naked eye. Koohii #1 Don´t look at the sun directly with your eyes, it´s risky! Koohii #2 You´ll risk your eyesight if you look up at the sun. Primitives risk, sun, day, eye 冒頭(ぼうとう): beginning, start, outset 冒険(ぼうけん): risk, venture, adventure Kunyomi: おか.す Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 冒す (おか.す)
companion Details Story Dictionary 朋 companion My Story Two moons are companions that Hold (HOU) hands. Koohii #1 My companion and I are like two moons side by side. Koohii #2 Under the twin moons of Tatooine, Luke had no COMPANION. Primitives companion, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, moon2, month2, flesh2, part of the body2 Kunyomi: とも Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	companion 朋 画数8 19 Details Story Dictionary 朋 companion My Story Two moons are companions that Hold (HOU) hands. Koohii #1 My companion and I are like two moons side by side. Koohii #2 Under the twin moons of Tatooine, Luke had no COMPANION. Primitives companion, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, moon2, month2, flesh2, part of the body2 Kunyomi: とも Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
bright Details Story Dictionary 明 bright Heisig's Among nature's bright lights, there are two that the biblical myth has God set in the sky: the sun to rule over the day and the moon to rule the night. Each of them has come to represent one of the common connotations of this key word: the sun, the bright insight of the clear thinker, and the moon, the bright intuition of the poet and the seer (see frame 13). Koohii #1 The sun makes the moon bright. Koohii #2 The sun and the moon are brightest objects in the day and night, respectively. Primitives bright, sun, day, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 明かす(あかす): to pass, spend, to reveal, to divulge 明白(あからさま): obvious, overt, plainly, frankly 明るい(あかるい): bright, cheerful 明き(あき): room, time to spare, emptiness, vacant 明くる(あくる): next, following 明後日(あさって): day after tomorrow 明日(あした): tomorrow 賢明(けんめい): wisdom, intelligence, prudence 明々後日(しあさって): two days after tomorrow 照明(しょうめい): illumination 声明(せいめい): declaration, statement, proclamation 不明(ふめい): unknown, obscure, indistinct, uncertain, ambiguous, ignorant, lack of wisdom, anonymous, unidentified 明瞭(めいりょう): clarity 明朗(めいろう): bright, clear, cheerful 明かり(あかり): lamplight, brightness 明らか(あきらか): obvious, clear 明け方(あけがた): dawn 明ける(あける): to dawn, become daylight 証明(しょうめい): proof, verification 透明(とうめい): transparency, cleanness 発明(はつめい): invention 文明(ぶんめい): civilization, culture 明後日(みょうごにち): day after tomorrow 明確(めいかく): clear up, clarify, define 夜明け(よあけ): dawn, daybreak 明日(あす): tomorrow 説明(せつめい): explanation 明い(あかるい): bright, light, cheerful, sunny Kunyomi: あ.かり、あか.るい、あか.るむ、あか.らむ、あき.らか、あ.ける、-あ.け、あ.く、あ.くる、あ.かす Onyomi: メイ、ミョウ、ミン Lesson: 2 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 明暗 (めいあん), 説明 (せつめい), 鮮明 (せんめい), 明かす (あ.かす), 明かり (あ.かり), 明く (あ.く), 明くる (あ.くる), 明ける (あ.ける), 明らむ (あか.らむ), 明るい (あか.るい), 明るむ (あか.るむ), 明らか (あき.らか)	bright 明 画数8 20 Details Story Dictionary 明 bright Heisig's Among nature's bright lights, there are two that the biblical myth has God set in the sky: the sun to rule over the day and the moon to rule the night. Each of them has come to represent one of the common connotations of this key word: the sun, the bright insight of the clear thinker, and the moon, the bright intuition of the poet and the seer (see frame 13). Koohii #1 The sun makes the moon bright. Koohii #2 The sun and the moon are brightest objects in the day and night, respectively. Primitives bright, sun, day, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 明かす(あかす): to pass, spend, to reveal, to divulge 明白(あからさま): obvious, overt, plainly, frankly 明るい(あかるい): bright, cheerful 明き(あき): room, time to spare, emptiness, vacant 明くる(あくる): next, following 明後日(あさって): day after tomorrow 明日(あした): tomorrow 賢明(けんめい): wisdom, intelligence, prudence 明々後日(しあさって): two days after tomorrow 照明(しょうめい): illumination 声明(せいめい): declaration, statement, proclamation 不明(ふめい): unknown, obscure, indistinct, uncertain, ambiguous, ignorant, lack of wisdom, anonymous, unidentified 明瞭(めいりょう): clarity 明朗(めいろう): bright, clear, cheerful 明かり(あかり): lamplight, brightness 明らか(あきらか): obvious, clear 明け方(あけがた): dawn 明ける(あける): to dawn, become daylight 証明(しょうめい): proof, verification 透明(とうめい): transparency, cleanness 発明(はつめい): invention 文明(ぶんめい): civilization, culture 明後日(みょうごにち): day after tomorrow 明確(めいかく): clear up, clarify, define 夜明け(よあけ): dawn, daybreak 明日(あす): tomorrow 説明(せつめい): explanation 明い(あかるい): bright, light, cheerful, sunny Kunyomi: あ.かり、あか.るい、あか.るむ、あか.らむ、あき.らか、あ.ける、-あ.け、あ.く、あ.くる、あ.かす Onyomi: メイ、ミョウ、ミン Lesson: 2 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 明暗 (めいあん), 説明 (せつめい), 鮮明 (せんめい), 明かす (あ.かす), 明かり (あ.かり), 明く (あ.く), 明くる (あ.くる), 明ける (あ.ける), 明らむ (あか.らむ), 明るい (あか.るい), 明るむ (あか.るむ), 明らか (あき.らか)
chant Details Story Dictionary 唱 chant My Story The chanting monk opened his *mouth* and 2 *suns* appeared Koohii #1 Someone chanting with their mouth open for two consecutive days. Koohii #2 Chants from our mouths are meant to reach the sun and the stars. Stars are just suns just further away so they seem smaller. Primitives chant, mouth, prosperous, sun, day, tongue wagging, sun2, day2, tongue wagging2 合唱(がっしょう): chorus, singing in a chorus 唱える(となえる): to recite, to chant, to call upon Kunyomi: とな.える Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 唱える (とな.える)	chant 唱 画数 21 Details Story Dictionary 唱 chant My Story The chanting monk opened his *mouth* and 2 *suns* appeared Koohii #1 Someone chanting with their mouth open for two consecutive days. Koohii #2 Chants from our mouths are meant to reach the sun and the stars. Stars are just suns just further away so they seem smaller. Primitives chant, mouth, prosperous, sun, day, tongue wagging, sun2, day2, tongue wagging2 合唱(がっしょう): chorus, singing in a chorus 唱える(となえる): to recite, to chant, to call upon Kunyomi: とな.える Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 唱える (とな.える)
sparkle Details Story Dictionary 晶 sparkle My Story diamonds can SHOU (show) a sparkle like 3 suns Sparkle is a {森} of *suns*! Koohii #1 A diamond sparkles as brightly as three suns. Koohii #2 Sparkle is a forest (#197) of suns! Primitives sparkle, day, sun, day3, sun3 結晶(けっしょう): crystal, crystallization Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	sparkle 晶 画数12 22 Details Story Dictionary 晶 sparkle My Story diamonds can SHOU (show) a sparkle like 3 suns Sparkle is a {森} of *suns*! Koohii #1 A diamond sparkles as brightly as three suns. Koohii #2 Sparkle is a forest (#197) of suns! Primitives sparkle, day, sun, day3, sun3 結晶(けっしょう): crystal, crystallization Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
goods Details Story Dictionary 品 goods My Story I have enough GOODS to fill three MOUTHs. Give me a HINt(ヒン) why SHINAt(しな) picking them up. Koohii #1 Three boxes of goods are devoured by the hungry mouths of waiting consumers. Koohii #2 Three hungry mouths waiting for the goods to come. Primitives goods, mouth, mouth3 下品(かひん): inferior article 気品(きひん): aroma 骨董品(こっとうひん): curio 出品(しゅっぴん): exhibit, display 品質(ひんしつ): quality 品種(ひんしゅ): brand, kind, description 用品(ようひん): articles, supplies, parts 下品(げひん): inferior article 作品(さくひん): work, opus, performance, production 品(しな): thing, article, goods, dignity, counter for meal courses 商品(しょうひん): commodity, goods, stock, merchandise 賞品(しょうひん): prize, trophy 食品(しょくひん): commodity, foodstuff 製品(せいひん): manufactured goods 手品(てじな): sleight of hand, conjuring trick, magic, juggling 日用品(にちようひん): daily necessities 必需品(ひつじゅひん): necessities, necessary article, requisite, essential 品(ひん): article, item 部品(ぶひん): parts, accessories 薬品(やくひん): medicine(s), chemical(s) 洋品店(ようひんてん): shop which handles Western-style apparel and accessories 品物(しなもの): article, goods 食料品(しょくりょうひん): foods Kunyomi: しな Onyomi: ヒン、ホン Lesson: 2 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 品 (しな)	goods 品 画数9 23 Details Story Dictionary 品 goods My Story I have enough GOODS to fill three MOUTHs. Give me a HINt(ヒン) why SHINAt(しな) picking them up. Koohii #1 Three boxes of goods are devoured by the hungry mouths of waiting consumers. Koohii #2 Three hungry mouths waiting for the goods to come. Primitives goods, mouth, mouth3 下品(かひん): inferior article 気品(きひん): aroma 骨董品(こっとうひん): curio 出品(しゅっぴん): exhibit, display 品質(ひんしつ): quality 品種(ひんしゅ): brand, kind, description 用品(ようひん): articles, supplies, parts 下品(げひん): inferior article 作品(さくひん): work, opus, performance, production 品(しな): thing, article, goods, dignity, counter for meal courses 商品(しょうひん): commodity, goods, stock, merchandise 賞品(しょうひん): prize, trophy 食品(しょくひん): commodity, foodstuff 製品(せいひん): manufactured goods 手品(てじな): sleight of hand, conjuring trick, magic, juggling 日用品(にちようひん): daily necessities 必需品(ひつじゅひん): necessities, necessary article, requisite, essential 品(ひん): article, item 部品(ぶひん): parts, accessories 薬品(やくひん): medicine(s), chemical(s) 洋品店(ようひんてん): shop which handles Western-style apparel and accessories 品物(しなもの): article, goods 食料品(しょくりょうひん): foods Kunyomi: しな Onyomi: ヒン、ホン Lesson: 2 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 品 (しな)
spine Details Story Dictionary 呂 spine My Story Spine connects head and body. The spine goes from one opening mouth/opening (mouth/face) to another mouth/opening (genitals). Just think of these openings being enlarged to represent the head and the body. The bottom is bigger because the body is bigger than the face. 風呂　ふろ(Japanese bath). Koohii #1 Spine connects head and body. Koohii #2 The spine goes from one opening mouth/opening (mouth/face) to another mouth/opening (genitals). Just think of these openings being enlarged to represent the head and the body. The bottom is bigger because the body is bigger than the face. Primitives spine, mouth, drop, mouth2 風呂(ふろ): bath 風呂敷(ふろしき): wrapping cloth, cloth wrapper Kunyomi: せぼね Onyomi: ロ、リョ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	spine 呂 画数7 24 Details Story Dictionary 呂 spine My Story Spine connects head and body. The spine goes from one opening mouth/opening (mouth/face) to another mouth/opening (genitals). Just think of these openings being enlarged to represent the head and the body. The bottom is bigger because the body is bigger than the face. 風呂　ふろ(Japanese bath). Koohii #1 Spine connects head and body. Koohii #2 The spine goes from one opening mouth/opening (mouth/face) to another mouth/opening (genitals). Just think of these openings being enlarged to represent the head and the body. The bottom is bigger because the body is bigger than the face. Primitives spine, mouth, drop, mouth2 風呂(ふろ): bath 風呂敷(ふろしき): wrapping cloth, cloth wrapper Kunyomi: せぼね Onyomi: ロ、リョ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
prosperous Details Story Dictionary 昌 prosperous My Story 1 sun = sun 2 suns = prosperous 3 suns = sparkle. Koohii #1 If you work from Sun UP to Sun DOWN you will be prosperous. Koohii #2 I kept getting this mixed up with meanings like ´fortune´, so here is a fool proof story! Remember the Vulcan salute from ´Star Trek´ (a fiction of the sci-fi genre in which heavenly bodies such as SUNS play a huge role) used with the phrase ´live long and PROSPER´? If that´s not enough of a visual reminder, the Vulcan salute shows the fingers parted in to 2 sets of 2, and visually kind of looks like this kanji if you think about it. Primitives prosperous, sun, day, sun2, day2 Kunyomi: さかん Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	prosperous 昌 画数8 25 Details Story Dictionary 昌 prosperous My Story 1 sun = sun 2 suns = prosperous 3 suns = sparkle. Koohii #1 If you work from Sun UP to Sun DOWN you will be prosperous. Koohii #2 I kept getting this mixed up with meanings like ´fortune´, so here is a fool proof story! Remember the Vulcan salute from ´Star Trek´ (a fiction of the sci-fi genre in which heavenly bodies such as SUNS play a huge role) used with the phrase ´live long and PROSPER´? If that´s not enough of a visual reminder, the Vulcan salute shows the fingers parted in to 2 sets of 2, and visually kind of looks like this kanji if you think about it. Primitives prosperous, sun, day, sun2, day2 Kunyomi: さかん Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
early Details Story Dictionary 早 early My Story EARLY, is when you have to start your *day* before *10*.. * As a primitive element, this kanji takes the meaning of sunflower, which was used to make the abstract key word early more graphic. Koohii #1 The sun up is early, well before ten. Koohii #2 An early sun-flower looks like a miniature sun perched on a needlelike stems. Primitives early, sunflower, sun, day, ten, needle お早う(おはよう): Good morning 早急(さっきゅう): urgent 素早い(すばやい): fast, quick, prompt, agile 早める(はやめる): to hasten, to quicken, to expedite, to precipitate, to accelerate 最早(もはや): already, now 早速(さっそく): at once, immediately, without delay, promptly 早口(はやくち): fast-talking 早い(はやい): early Kunyomi: はや.い、はや、はや-、はや.まる、はや.める、さ- Onyomi: ソウ、サッ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 早期 (そうき), 早晩 (そうばん), 早々に (そうそうに), 早い (はや.い), 早まる (はや.まる), 早める (はや.める)	early 早 画数6 26 Details Story Dictionary 早 early My Story EARLY, is when you have to start your *day* before *10*.. * As a primitive element, this kanji takes the meaning of sunflower, which was used to make the abstract key word early more graphic. Koohii #1 The sun up is early, well before ten. Koohii #2 An early sun-flower looks like a miniature sun perched on a needlelike stems. Primitives early, sunflower, sun, day, ten, needle お早う(おはよう): Good morning 早急(さっきゅう): urgent 素早い(すばやい): fast, quick, prompt, agile 早める(はやめる): to hasten, to quicken, to expedite, to precipitate, to accelerate 最早(もはや): already, now 早速(さっそく): at once, immediately, without delay, promptly 早口(はやくち): fast-talking 早い(はやい): early Kunyomi: はや.い、はや、はや-、はや.まる、はや.める、さ- Onyomi: ソウ、サッ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 早期 (そうき), 早晩 (そうばん), 早々に (そうそうに), 早い (はや.い), 早まる (はや.まる), 早める (はや.める)
rising sun Details Story Dictionary 旭 rising sun My Story [Nine + Sun] at {九} am there's a rising sun Koohii #1 9am carries with it the rising sun. Koohii #2 Nine planets revolve around our rising sun. Primitives rising sun, nine, baseball, sun, day Kunyomi: あさひ Onyomi: キョク Lesson: 2 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	rising sun 旭 画数6 27 Details Story Dictionary 旭 rising sun My Story [Nine + Sun] at {九} am there's a rising sun Koohii #1 9am carries with it the rising sun. Koohii #2 Nine planets revolve around our rising sun. Primitives rising sun, nine, baseball, sun, day Kunyomi: あさひ Onyomi: キョク Lesson: 2 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"generation Details Story Dictionary 世 generation Heisig's We generally consider one generation as a period of thirty (or ten plus ten plus ten) years. If you look at this kanji in its completed form - not in its stroke order - you will see three tens. When writing it, think of the lower horizontal lines as ""addition"" lines written under numbers to add them up. Thus: ten ""plus"" ten ""plus"" ten = thirty. Actually, it's a lot easier doing it with a pencil than reading it in a book. Koohii #1 3 tens = generation. Koohii #2 They SAY a generation is ten+ten+ten years, with the big first ten providing a grounding, and the next ten providing a little more grounding for the final ten. But I wish the next generation didn´t always SAY ""yo!"". (ON reading is SEI, KUN reading is yo). Primitives generation, ten, twenty お世辞(おせじ): flattery, compliment 出世(しゅっせ): promotion, successful career, eminence 世辞(せじ): flattery, compliment 世帯(せたい): household 世代(せだい): generation, the world, the age 世論(せろん): public opinion 世(よ): world, society, age, generation 世紀(せいき): century, era 世間(せけん): world, society 中世(ちゅうせい): Middle Ages, mediaeval times 世の中(よのなか): society, the world, the times 世界(せかい): world 世話(せわ): take care of Kunyomi: よ、さんじゅう Onyomi: セイ、セ、ソウ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 世紀 (せいき), 時世 (じせい), 処世 (しょせい), 世 (よ)"	"generation 世 画数5 28 Details Story Dictionary 世 generation Heisig's We generally consider one generation as a period of thirty (or ten plus ten plus ten) years. If you look at this kanji in its completed form - not in its stroke order - you will see three tens. When writing it, think of the lower horizontal lines as ""addition"" lines written under numbers to add them up. Thus: ten ""plus"" ten ""plus"" ten = thirty. Actually, it's a lot easier doing it with a pencil than reading it in a book. Koohii #1 3 tens = generation. Koohii #2 They SAY a generation is ten+ten+ten years, with the big first ten providing a grounding, and the next ten providing a little more grounding for the final ten. But I wish the next generation didn´t always SAY ""yo!"". (ON reading is SEI, KUN reading is yo). Primitives generation, ten, twenty お世辞(おせじ): flattery, compliment 出世(しゅっせ): promotion, successful career, eminence 世辞(せじ): flattery, compliment 世帯(せたい): household 世代(せだい): generation, the world, the age 世論(せろん): public opinion 世(よ): world, society, age, generation 世紀(せいき): century, era 世間(せけん): world, society 中世(ちゅうせい): Middle Ages, mediaeval times 世の中(よのなか): society, the world, the times 世界(せかい): world 世話(せわ): take care of Kunyomi: よ、さんじゅう Onyomi: セイ、セ、ソウ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 世紀 (せいき), 時世 (じせい), 処世 (しょせい), 世 (よ)"
stomach Details Story Dictionary 胃 stomach My Story [{田} + {月}] A field of rice could fill my stomach for over a month. Koohii #1 The rice field is harvested once a month to get food for our stomach. Koohii #2 The stomach is the part of the body that digests food (which, in Japan, is mainly rice). Primitives stomach, rice field, brains, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 胃(い): stomach Kunyomi: Onyomi: イ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	stomach 胃 画数9 29 Details Story Dictionary 胃 stomach My Story [{田} + {月}] A field of rice could fill my stomach for over a month. Koohii #1 The rice field is harvested once a month to get food for our stomach. Koohii #2 The stomach is the part of the body that digests food (which, in Japan, is mainly rice). Primitives stomach, rice field, brains, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 胃(い): stomach Kunyomi: Onyomi: イ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
"nightbreak Details Story Dictionary 旦 nightbreak Heisig's While we normally refer to the start of the day as ""daybreak,"" Japanese commonly refers to it as the ""opening up of night"" into day. Hence the choice of this rather odd key word, nightbreak. The single stroke at the bottom represents the floor (have a peek again at frame 1) or the horizon over which the sun is poking its head Koohii #1 A nightbreak happens when the sun rises over the horizon (floor). Koohii #2 It may be easier to think of the keyword ""DAYBREAK"" or ""MORNING"" for this kanji (other kanji dictionaries do). Then the mnemonic phrase ""SUN rising over the HORIZON"" works better. It is an infrequent kanji, but can be found in: 旦夕　（たんせき） morning and evening, or 元旦　（がんたん） New Year´s Day. Primitives nightbreak, sun, one, floor 旦那(だんな): master (of house), husband (informal) 一旦(いったん): once, for a moment, one morning, temporarily Kunyomi: あき.らか、あきら、ただし、あさ、あした Onyomi: タン、ダン Lesson: 2 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"nightbreak 旦 画数5 30 Details Story Dictionary 旦 nightbreak Heisig's While we normally refer to the start of the day as ""daybreak,"" Japanese commonly refers to it as the ""opening up of night"" into day. Hence the choice of this rather odd key word, nightbreak. The single stroke at the bottom represents the floor (have a peek again at frame 1) or the horizon over which the sun is poking its head Koohii #1 A nightbreak happens when the sun rises over the horizon (floor). Koohii #2 It may be easier to think of the keyword ""DAYBREAK"" or ""MORNING"" for this kanji (other kanji dictionaries do). Then the mnemonic phrase ""SUN rising over the HORIZON"" works better. It is an infrequent kanji, but can be found in: 旦夕　（たんせき） morning and evening, or 元旦　（がんたん） New Year´s Day. Primitives nightbreak, sun, one, floor 旦那(だんな): master (of house), husband (informal) 一旦(いったん): once, for a moment, one morning, temporarily Kunyomi: あき.らか、あきら、ただし、あさ、あした Onyomi: タン、ダン Lesson: 2 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
gall bladder Details Story Dictionary 胆 gall bladder My Story For a *month* {月}, I was up until *nightbreak* {旦} because of my gall bladder {胆} Koohii #1 The moon has a lot of gall sticking around after sunrise. Koohii #2 All the month long I have to start working at nightbreak. This really activates my gall bladder (=I get angry). Primitives gallbladder, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor 大胆(だいたん): bold, daring, audacious Kunyomi: きも Onyomi: タン Lesson: 2 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	gall bladder 胆 画数9 31 Details Story Dictionary 胆 gall bladder My Story For a *month* {月}, I was up until *nightbreak* {旦} because of my gall bladder {胆} Koohii #1 The moon has a lot of gall sticking around after sunrise. Koohii #2 All the month long I have to start working at nightbreak. This really activates my gall bladder (=I get angry). Primitives gallbladder, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor 大胆(だいたん): bold, daring, audacious Kunyomi: きも Onyomi: タン Lesson: 2 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
span Details Story Dictionary 亘 span My Story sun spans from the floor to the ceiling A sun span-wich. Koohii #1 The sun spans from horizon to horizon in a day. Koohii #2 The span of the day is the time between the sun goes up and comes down. Primitives span, one, ceiling, sun, day, one, floor Kunyomi: わた.る、もと.める Onyomi: コウ、カン Lesson: 2 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	span 亘 画数6 32 Details Story Dictionary 亘 span My Story sun spans from the floor to the ceiling A sun span-wich. Koohii #1 The sun spans from horizon to horizon in a day. Koohii #2 The span of the day is the time between the sun goes up and comes down. Primitives span, one, ceiling, sun, day, one, floor Kunyomi: わた.る、もと.める Onyomi: コウ、カン Lesson: 2 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"concave Details Story Dictionary 凹 concave My Story Looks like a vagina (in contrast to {凸} which looks like a penis) An erect dick is convex; a deep vagina is concave Koohii #1 The letter ""U"" is concavely written. Koohii #2 Concave has a concave shape. Primitives concave 凸凹(でこぼこ): unevenness, roughness, ruggedness 凹む(へこむ): be dented, be indented, yield to, to give, sink, collapse, cave in, be snubbed Kunyomi: くぼ.む、へこ.む、ぼこ Onyomi: オウ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"concave 凹 画数5 33 Details Story Dictionary 凹 concave My Story Looks like a vagina (in contrast to {凸} which looks like a penis) An erect dick is convex; a deep vagina is concave Koohii #1 The letter ""U"" is concavely written. Koohii #2 Concave has a concave shape. Primitives concave 凸凹(でこぼこ): unevenness, roughness, ruggedness 凹む(へこむ): be dented, be indented, yield to, to give, sink, collapse, cave in, be snubbed Kunyomi: くぼ.む、へこ.む、ぼこ Onyomi: オウ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
convex Details Story Dictionary 凸 convex My Story Looks like a penis (in contrast to {凹} which looks like a vagina) An erect dick is convex; a deep vagina is concave Koohii #1 When I get vexed, I give people the middle finger. Koohii #2 Convex has a convex shape. Primitives convex 凸凹(でこぼこ): unevenness, roughness, ruggedness Kunyomi: でこ Onyomi: トツ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	convex 凸 画数5 34 Details Story Dictionary 凸 convex My Story Looks like a penis (in contrast to {凹} which looks like a vagina) An erect dick is convex; a deep vagina is concave Koohii #1 When I get vexed, I give people the middle finger. Koohii #2 Convex has a convex shape. Primitives convex 凸凹(でこぼこ): unevenness, roughness, ruggedness Kunyomi: でこ Onyomi: トツ Lesson: 2 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
olden times Details Story Dictionary 旧 olden times My Story Age 18 = olden times. Koohii #1 Age 18 = olden times. Koohii #2 The old man with a walking stick kept talking of olden times all day long. Primitives olden times, stick, sun, day 旧知(きゅうち): old friend, old friendship 旧事(くじ): past events, bygones 復旧(ふくきゅう): restoration, restitution, rehabilitation 旧(きゅう): ex- Kunyomi: ふる.い、もと Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	olden times 旧 画数5 35 Details Story Dictionary 旧 olden times My Story Age 18 = olden times. Koohii #1 Age 18 = olden times. Koohii #2 The old man with a walking stick kept talking of olden times all day long. Primitives olden times, stick, sun, day 旧知(きゅうち): old friend, old friendship 旧事(くじ): past events, bygones 復旧(ふくきゅう): restoration, restitution, rehabilitation 旧(きゅう): ex- Kunyomi: ふる.い、もと Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
oneself Details Story Dictionary 自 oneself Heisig's You can think of this kanji as a stylized pictograph of the nose, that little drop that Mother Nature set between your eyes. The Japanese refer to themselves by pointing a finger at their nose - giving us an easy way to remember the kanji for oneself. * The same meaning of oneself can be kept when this kanji is used as a primitive element, but you will generally find it better to give it the meaning of nose or nostrils, both because it accords with the story above and because it is the first part of the kanji for nose (Frame 733). Koohii #1 Faced with his clone, our hero valiantly cut a mark on his forehead right above his eye so that his comrades could tell his true oneself from the enemy. Koohii #2 To use an eyedropper by oneself, aim from above to put a drop into the eye. Primitives oneself, drop, eye 自惚れ(うぬぼれ): pretension, conceit, hubris 自ずから(おのずから): naturally, as a matter of course 自我(じが): self, the ego 自覚(じかく): self-conscious 自己(じこ): self, oneself 自在(じざい): freely, at will 自主(じしゅ): independence, autonomy 自首(じしゅ): surrender, give oneself up 自信(じしん): self-confidence 自尊心(じそんしん): self-respect, conceit 自転(じてん): rotation, spin 自動詞(じどうし): intransitive verb (no direct obj) 自立(じりつ): independence, self-reliance 独自(どくじ): original, peculiar, characteristic 各自(かくじ): individual, each 自衛(じえい): self-defense 自殺(じさつ): suicide 自習(じしゅう): self-study 自身(じしん): by oneself, personally 自然(しぜん): nature, spontaneous 自然科学(しぜんかがく): natural science 自治(じち): self-government, autonomy 自動(じどう): automatic 自慢(じまん): pride, boast 不自由(ふじゆう): discomfort, disability, inconvenience, destitution 自由(じゆう): freedom 自転車(じてんしゃ): bicycle 自動車(じどうしゃ): automobile 自分(じぶん): myself, oneself Kunyomi: みずか.ら、おの.ずから、おの.ずと Onyomi: ジ、シ Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 自分 (じぶん), 自由 (じゆう), 各自 (かくじ), 自ら (みずか.ら)	oneself 自 画数6 36 Details Story Dictionary 自 oneself Heisig's You can think of this kanji as a stylized pictograph of the nose, that little drop that Mother Nature set between your eyes. The Japanese refer to themselves by pointing a finger at their nose - giving us an easy way to remember the kanji for oneself. * The same meaning of oneself can be kept when this kanji is used as a primitive element, but you will generally find it better to give it the meaning of nose or nostrils, both because it accords with the story above and because it is the first part of the kanji for nose (Frame 733). Koohii #1 Faced with his clone, our hero valiantly cut a mark on his forehead right above his eye so that his comrades could tell his true oneself from the enemy. Koohii #2 To use an eyedropper by oneself, aim from above to put a drop into the eye. Primitives oneself, drop, eye 自惚れ(うぬぼれ): pretension, conceit, hubris 自ずから(おのずから): naturally, as a matter of course 自我(じが): self, the ego 自覚(じかく): self-conscious 自己(じこ): self, oneself 自在(じざい): freely, at will 自主(じしゅ): independence, autonomy 自首(じしゅ): surrender, give oneself up 自信(じしん): self-confidence 自尊心(じそんしん): self-respect, conceit 自転(じてん): rotation, spin 自動詞(じどうし): intransitive verb (no direct obj) 自立(じりつ): independence, self-reliance 独自(どくじ): original, peculiar, characteristic 各自(かくじ): individual, each 自衛(じえい): self-defense 自殺(じさつ): suicide 自習(じしゅう): self-study 自身(じしん): by oneself, personally 自然(しぜん): nature, spontaneous 自然科学(しぜんかがく): natural science 自治(じち): self-government, autonomy 自動(じどう): automatic 自慢(じまん): pride, boast 不自由(ふじゆう): discomfort, disability, inconvenience, destitution 自由(じゆう): freedom 自転車(じてんしゃ): bicycle 自動車(じどうしゃ): automobile 自分(じぶん): myself, oneself Kunyomi: みずか.ら、おの.ずから、おの.ずと Onyomi: ジ、シ Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 自分 (じぶん), 自由 (じゆう), 各自 (かくじ), 自ら (みずか.ら)
white Details Story Dictionary 白 white Heisig's The color white is a mixture of all the primary colors, both for pigments and for light, as we see when a prism breaks up the rays of the sun. Hence, a single drop of sun spells white. * As a primitive, this character can either retain its meaning of white or take the more graphic meaning of a white bird or dove. This latter stems from the fact that it appears at the top of the kanji for bird, which we shall get to later (Frame 2091). Koohii #1 A white ray is a drop of sun. Koohii #2 Even a small drop (´) of the sun (日) would make you see nothing but white. Primitives white, drop, sun, day 青白い(あおじろい): pale 明白(あからさま): obvious, overt, plainly, frankly 面白い(おもしろい): interesting, amusing 告白(こくはく): confession, acknowledgement 蛋白質(たんぱくしつ): protein 白状(はくじょう): confession 白髪(しらが): white or grey hair, trendy hair bleaching 白(しろ): white 真っ白(まっしろ): pure white 白い(しろい): white Kunyomi: しろ、しら-、しろ.い Onyomi: ハク、ビャク Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 白髪 (しらが), 紅白 (こうはく), 明白 (めいはく), 白 (しろ), 白い (しろ.い)	white 白 画数5 37 Details Story Dictionary 白 white Heisig's The color white is a mixture of all the primary colors, both for pigments and for light, as we see when a prism breaks up the rays of the sun. Hence, a single drop of sun spells white. * As a primitive, this character can either retain its meaning of white or take the more graphic meaning of a white bird or dove. This latter stems from the fact that it appears at the top of the kanji for bird, which we shall get to later (Frame 2091). Koohii #1 A white ray is a drop of sun. Koohii #2 Even a small drop (´) of the sun (日) would make you see nothing but white. Primitives white, drop, sun, day 青白い(あおじろい): pale 明白(あからさま): obvious, overt, plainly, frankly 面白い(おもしろい): interesting, amusing 告白(こくはく): confession, acknowledgement 蛋白質(たんぱくしつ): protein 白状(はくじょう): confession 白髪(しらが): white or grey hair, trendy hair bleaching 白(しろ): white 真っ白(まっしろ): pure white 白い(しろい): white Kunyomi: しろ、しら-、しろ.い Onyomi: ハク、ビャク Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 白髪 (しらが), 紅白 (こうはく), 明白 (めいはく), 白 (しろ), 白い (しろ.い)
hundred Details Story Dictionary 百 hundred My Story *1* *white* = 100 black Koohii #1 100 turned sideways. {sort of the same as what ashoksaraf said}. Koohii #2 That dirty ceiling was painted WHITE a hundred times! Primitives hundred, one, ceiling, white, dove 百科事典(ひゃっかじてん): encyclopedia 百科辞典(ひゃっかじてん): encyclopedia 百(ひゃく): 100, hundred 八百屋(やおや): greengrocer Kunyomi: もも Onyomi: ヒャク、ビャク Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds:	hundred 百 画数6 38 Details Story Dictionary 百 hundred My Story *1* *white* = 100 black Koohii #1 100 turned sideways. {sort of the same as what ashoksaraf said}. Koohii #2 That dirty ceiling was painted WHITE a hundred times! Primitives hundred, one, ceiling, white, dove 百科事典(ひゃっかじてん): encyclopedia 百科辞典(ひゃっかじてん): encyclopedia 百(ひゃく): 100, hundred 八百屋(やおや): greengrocer Kunyomi: もも Onyomi: ヒャク、ビャク Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds:
in Details Story Dictionary 中 in Heisig's The elements here are a walking stick and a mouth. Remember the trouble your mother had getting medicine in your mouth? Chances are it crossed her mind more than once to grab something handy, like your grandfather's walking stick, to pry open your jaws while she performed her duty. Keep the image of getting something in from the outside, and the otherwise abstract sense of this key word should be a lot easier than trying to spoon castor oil into a baby's mouth. Koohii #1 Pocky goes in the mouth. Koohii #2 My GF lets me come in her mouth (pictogram). Primitives in, stick, mouth 心中(しんじゅう): double suicide, lovers suicide 中継(ちゅうけい): relay, hook-up 中指(ちゅうし): middle finger 中傷(ちゅうしょう): slander, libel, defamation 中枢(ちゅうすう): centre, pivot, mainstay, nucleus, backbone, central figure, pillar, key man 中断(ちゅうだん): interruption, suspension, break 中腹(ちゅうっぱら): irritated, offended 中毒(ちゅうどく): poisoning 中立(ちゅうりつ): neutrality 中和(ちゅうわ): neutralize, counteract 途中(つちゅう): on the way, en route 中々(なかなか): very, considerably, easily, readily, by no means (neg), fairly, quite, highly, rather 中程(なかほど): middle, midway 中味(なかみ): contents, interior, substance, filling, (sword) blade 中身(なかみ): contents, interior, substance, filling, (sword) blade 命中(めいちゅう): a hit 夜中(やちゅう): all night, the whole night 連中(れんじゅう): colleagues, company, a lot 御中(おんちゅう): and Company, Messrs. 空中(くうちゅう): sky, air 最中(さいちゅう): in the middle of, height of, midst 集中(しゅうちゅう): concentration, focusing the mind 中(ちゅう): medium, mediocre 中央(ちゅうおう): center, middle, central 中学(ちゅうがく): middle school, junior high school 中間(ちゅうかん): middle, midway, interim 中古(ちゅうこ): used, second-hand, old, Middle Ages 中止(ちゅうし): suspension, stoppage, discontinuance, interruption 中旬(ちゅうじゅん): second third of a month 中心(ちゅうしん): center, core, heart, pivot, emphasis, balance 中性(ちゅうせい): neuter gender, neutral (chem.), indifference, sterility 中世(ちゅうせい): Middle Ages, mediaeval times 中途(ちゅうと): in the middle, half-way 中年(ちゅうねん): middle-aged 中指(なかゆび): middle finger 日中(にっちゅう): daytime, during the day, Sino-Japanese 熱中(ねっちゅう): enthusiasm, zeal, mania 年中(ねんじゅう): whole year, always, everyday 話中(はなしちゅう): while talking, the line is busy 夢中(むちゅう): daze, (in a) trance, ecstasy, delirium, engrossment 夜中(よなか): all night, the whole night 世の中(よのなか): society, the world, the times 背中(せなか): back 中学校(ちゅうがっこう): junior high school 途中(とちゅう): on the way 真ん中(まんなか): middle, center, half way 中(なか): inside, middle, among Kunyomi: なか、うち、あた.る Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 中 (なか)	in 中 画数4 39 Details Story Dictionary 中 in Heisig's The elements here are a walking stick and a mouth. Remember the trouble your mother had getting medicine in your mouth? Chances are it crossed her mind more than once to grab something handy, like your grandfather's walking stick, to pry open your jaws while she performed her duty. Keep the image of getting something in from the outside, and the otherwise abstract sense of this key word should be a lot easier than trying to spoon castor oil into a baby's mouth. Koohii #1 Pocky goes in the mouth. Koohii #2 My GF lets me come in her mouth (pictogram). Primitives in, stick, mouth 心中(しんじゅう): double suicide, lovers suicide 中継(ちゅうけい): relay, hook-up 中指(ちゅうし): middle finger 中傷(ちゅうしょう): slander, libel, defamation 中枢(ちゅうすう): centre, pivot, mainstay, nucleus, backbone, central figure, pillar, key man 中断(ちゅうだん): interruption, suspension, break 中腹(ちゅうっぱら): irritated, offended 中毒(ちゅうどく): poisoning 中立(ちゅうりつ): neutrality 中和(ちゅうわ): neutralize, counteract 途中(つちゅう): on the way, en route 中々(なかなか): very, considerably, easily, readily, by no means (neg), fairly, quite, highly, rather 中程(なかほど): middle, midway 中味(なかみ): contents, interior, substance, filling, (sword) blade 中身(なかみ): contents, interior, substance, filling, (sword) blade 命中(めいちゅう): a hit 夜中(やちゅう): all night, the whole night 連中(れんじゅう): colleagues, company, a lot 御中(おんちゅう): and Company, Messrs. 空中(くうちゅう): sky, air 最中(さいちゅう): in the middle of, height of, midst 集中(しゅうちゅう): concentration, focusing the mind 中(ちゅう): medium, mediocre 中央(ちゅうおう): center, middle, central 中学(ちゅうがく): middle school, junior high school 中間(ちゅうかん): middle, midway, interim 中古(ちゅうこ): used, second-hand, old, Middle Ages 中止(ちゅうし): suspension, stoppage, discontinuance, interruption 中旬(ちゅうじゅん): second third of a month 中心(ちゅうしん): center, core, heart, pivot, emphasis, balance 中性(ちゅうせい): neuter gender, neutral (chem.), indifference, sterility 中世(ちゅうせい): Middle Ages, mediaeval times 中途(ちゅうと): in the middle, half-way 中年(ちゅうねん): middle-aged 中指(なかゆび): middle finger 日中(にっちゅう): daytime, during the day, Sino-Japanese 熱中(ねっちゅう): enthusiasm, zeal, mania 年中(ねんじゅう): whole year, always, everyday 話中(はなしちゅう): while talking, the line is busy 夢中(むちゅう): daze, (in a) trance, ecstasy, delirium, engrossment 夜中(よなか): all night, the whole night 世の中(よのなか): society, the world, the times 背中(せなか): back 中学校(ちゅうがっこう): junior high school 途中(とちゅう): on the way 真ん中(まんなか): middle, center, half way 中(なか): inside, middle, among Kunyomi: なか、うち、あた.る Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 中 (なか)
thousand Details Story Dictionary 千 thousand My Story The number ten bought a fancy hat for a THOUSAND yen! One T = one thousand. Koohii #1 It takes many drops of ten to get to a thousand. Koohii #2 One T = one thousand. Primitives thousand, drop, ten, needle 千(せん): thousand, many Kunyomi: ち Onyomi: セン Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 千 (ち)	thousand 千 画数3 40 Details Story Dictionary 千 thousand My Story The number ten bought a fancy hat for a THOUSAND yen! One T = one thousand. Koohii #1 It takes many drops of ten to get to a thousand. Koohii #2 One T = one thousand. Primitives thousand, drop, ten, needle 千(せん): thousand, many Kunyomi: ち Onyomi: セン Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 千 (ち)
tongue Details Story Dictionary 舌 tongue My Story a *thousand* *mouths* can`t speak the same tongue Koohii #1 What is in a mouth that permits it to speak a thousand things? Yes, a tongue. Koohii #2 Kissing a thousand mouths eventually gets you some tongue. Primitives tongue, thousand, drop, ten, needle, mouth 舌(した): tongue Kunyomi: した Onyomi: ゼツ Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 舌 (した)	tongue 舌 画数6 41 Details Story Dictionary 舌 tongue My Story a *thousand* *mouths* can`t speak the same tongue Koohii #1 What is in a mouth that permits it to speak a thousand things? Yes, a tongue. Koohii #2 Kissing a thousand mouths eventually gets you some tongue. Primitives tongue, thousand, drop, ten, needle, mouth 舌(した): tongue Kunyomi: した Onyomi: ゼツ Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 舌 (した)
measuring box Details Story Dictionary 升 measuring box My Story A measuring box is a square wooden box that was used to measure one thousand grains of rice (needles) in feudal Japan. It was supposed to be enough to feed a working man for one day. Looks like a weird H Koohii #1 It is a thousand or ten? I need my measuring box. Koohii #2 I can fit a thousand needles into my measuring box, but only if I bend the thousand. Primitives measuring box, thousand, drop, ten, needle Kunyomi: ます Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 3 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 升 (ます)	measuring box 升 画数4 42 Details Story Dictionary 升 measuring box My Story A measuring box is a square wooden box that was used to measure one thousand grains of rice (needles) in feudal Japan. It was supposed to be enough to feed a working man for one day. Looks like a weird H Koohii #1 It is a thousand or ten? I need my measuring box. Koohii #2 I can fit a thousand needles into my measuring box, but only if I bend the thousand. Primitives measuring box, thousand, drop, ten, needle Kunyomi: ます Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 3 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 升 (ます)
"rise up Details Story Dictionary 昇 rise up My Story a *sun* rising up from a *measuring box* Weebs rise up ヽ༼ຈل͜ຈ༽ﾉ , take your rice *measuring box* with the *sun on top* and start chugging them to gravitate the non-weebs to become weebs Koohii #1 This kanji does not mean ""get up"" or ""awake."" It means rising, like the rising of a salary, or a promotion. STORY: You know that your salary has RISEN UP when your MEASURING BOX has enough dollar bills in it to reach the SUN. Koohii #2 We Measure the Sun to decide when we should Rise Up out of bed. Primitives rise up, sun, day, measuring box, thousand, drop, ten, needle 上昇(じょうしょう): rising, ascending, climbing 昇進(しょうしん): promotion 昇る(のぼる): to arise, to ascend, to go up Kunyomi: のぼ.る Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 3 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 昇る (のぼ.る)"	"rise up 昇 画数8 43 Details Story Dictionary 昇 rise up My Story a *sun* rising up from a *measuring box* Weebs rise up ヽ༼ຈل͜ຈ༽ﾉ , take your rice *measuring box* with the *sun on top* and start chugging them to gravitate the non-weebs to become weebs Koohii #1 This kanji does not mean ""get up"" or ""awake."" It means rising, like the rising of a salary, or a promotion. STORY: You know that your salary has RISEN UP when your MEASURING BOX has enough dollar bills in it to reach the SUN. Koohii #2 We Measure the Sun to decide when we should Rise Up out of bed. Primitives rise up, sun, day, measuring box, thousand, drop, ten, needle 上昇(じょうしょう): rising, ascending, climbing 昇進(しょうしん): promotion 昇る(のぼる): to arise, to ascend, to go up Kunyomi: のぼ.る Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 3 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 昇る (のぼ.る)"
"round (Spherical) Details Story Dictionary 丸 round (Spherical) My Story Watch out for {太}. Here Heisig could have added a ""t"" and we would have had a much better keyword : #rotund#. #Rotund# is more specific than ""round"" which begs for confusion with {円}. A dictionary search on ""fat"" or ""round"" doesn't yield this kanji, but ""rotund"" does! Primitive suggestion: the *Laughing Buddha* is often depicted as a #rotund#, smiling bald man in robes with a largely exposed pot belly stomach (symbolizing plenitude). * As a primitive, this element takes the meaning of a fat man. Think of a grotesquely fat man whose paunch so covers the plate that he is always getting hit by the pitch. Hence a round baseball player becomes a fat man. Koohii #1 Nine plus a drop rounds it off to ten! Koohii #2 Watch out for plump (#120). Here Heisig could have added a ""t"" and we would have had a much better keyword : rotund. Rotund is more specific than ""round"" which begs for confusion with circle (#1811). A dictionary search on ""fat"" or ""round"" doesn´t yield this kanji, but ""rotund"" does! Primitive suggestion: the Laughing Buddha is often depicted as a rotund, smiling bald man in robes with a largely exposed pot belly stomach (symbolizing plenitude). Primitives round, drop, nine, baseball 日の丸(ひのまる): the Japanese flag 丸ごと(まるごと): in its entirety, whole, wholly 丸っきり(まるっきり): completely, perfectly, just as if 丸々(まるまる): completely 丸める(まるめる): to make round, to round off, to roll up, to curl up, to seduce, to cajole, to explain away 真ん丸い(まんまるい): perfectly circular 丸(まる): circle 丸い(まるい): round, circular, spherical Kunyomi: まる、まる.める、まる.い Onyomi: ガン Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 丸 (まる), 丸い (まる.い), 丸める (まる.める)"	"round (Spherical) 丸 画数3 44 Details Story Dictionary 丸 round (Spherical) My Story Watch out for {太}. Here Heisig could have added a ""t"" and we would have had a much better keyword : #rotund#. #Rotund# is more specific than ""round"" which begs for confusion with {円}. A dictionary search on ""fat"" or ""round"" doesn't yield this kanji, but ""rotund"" does! Primitive suggestion: the *Laughing Buddha* is often depicted as a #rotund#, smiling bald man in robes with a largely exposed pot belly stomach (symbolizing plenitude). * As a primitive, this element takes the meaning of a fat man. Think of a grotesquely fat man whose paunch so covers the plate that he is always getting hit by the pitch. Hence a round baseball player becomes a fat man. Koohii #1 Nine plus a drop rounds it off to ten! Koohii #2 Watch out for plump (#120). Here Heisig could have added a ""t"" and we would have had a much better keyword : rotund. Rotund is more specific than ""round"" which begs for confusion with circle (#1811). A dictionary search on ""fat"" or ""round"" doesn´t yield this kanji, but ""rotund"" does! Primitive suggestion: the Laughing Buddha is often depicted as a rotund, smiling bald man in robes with a largely exposed pot belly stomach (symbolizing plenitude). Primitives round, drop, nine, baseball 日の丸(ひのまる): the Japanese flag 丸ごと(まるごと): in its entirety, whole, wholly 丸っきり(まるっきり): completely, perfectly, just as if 丸々(まるまる): completely 丸める(まるめる): to make round, to round off, to roll up, to curl up, to seduce, to cajole, to explain away 真ん丸い(まんまるい): perfectly circular 丸(まる): circle 丸い(まるい): round, circular, spherical Kunyomi: まる、まる.める、まる.い Onyomi: ガン Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 丸 (まる), 丸い (まる.い), 丸める (まる.める)"
measurement Details Story Dictionary 寸 measurement Heisig's This kanji actually stood for a small measurement used prior to the metric system, a bit over an inch in length, and from there acquired the sense of measurement. In the old system, it was one-tenth of a shaku (whose kanji we shall meet in frame 1151). The picture, appropriately, represents one drop of a ten (with a hook!). * As a primitive, we shall use this to mean glue or glued to. There is no need to devise a story to remember this, since the primitive will appear so often you would have to struggle hard NOT to remember it. Koohii #1 The decimal system uses drops of ten as a measurement. Koohii #2 Glue two sticks together to make the best measurement. (I always remember the primitive, but never the original keyword.). Primitives measurement, glue, drop, ten with a hook 寸法(すんぽう): measurement, size, dimension 一寸(ちょっと): (ateji) (adv int) (uk) just a minute, a short time, a while, just a little, somewhat, easily, readily, rather Kunyomi: Onyomi: スン Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	measurement 寸 画数3 45 Details Story Dictionary 寸 measurement Heisig's This kanji actually stood for a small measurement used prior to the metric system, a bit over an inch in length, and from there acquired the sense of measurement. In the old system, it was one-tenth of a shaku (whose kanji we shall meet in frame 1151). The picture, appropriately, represents one drop of a ten (with a hook!). * As a primitive, we shall use this to mean glue or glued to. There is no need to devise a story to remember this, since the primitive will appear so often you would have to struggle hard NOT to remember it. Koohii #1 The decimal system uses drops of ten as a measurement. Koohii #2 Glue two sticks together to make the best measurement. (I always remember the primitive, but never the original keyword.). Primitives measurement, glue, drop, ten with a hook 寸法(すんぽう): measurement, size, dimension 一寸(ちょっと): (ateji) (adv int) (uk) just a minute, a short time, a while, just a little, somewhat, easily, readily, rather Kunyomi: Onyomi: スン Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
elbow Details Story Dictionary 肘 elbow My Story The *moon* is *glued* to my elbow Koohii #1 Sometimes I get carried away and do elbow curls until the point where my forearm snaps off! When that happens I simply pull out the glue and re-attach the elbow to my flesh. Koohii #2 Picture two Siamese twins glued together at the elbow. Primitives elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, glue 肘(ひじ): elbow Kunyomi: ひじ Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 3 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 肘 (ひじ)	elbow 肘 画数7 46 Details Story Dictionary 肘 elbow My Story The *moon* is *glued* to my elbow Koohii #1 Sometimes I get carried away and do elbow curls until the point where my forearm snaps off! When that happens I simply pull out the glue and re-attach the elbow to my flesh. Koohii #2 Picture two Siamese twins glued together at the elbow. Primitives elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, glue 肘(ひじ): elbow Kunyomi: ひじ Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 3 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 肘 (ひじ)
specialty Details Story Dictionary 専 specialty My Story A *TNT pump* and some *glue* create a specialty weapon for ISIS Koohii #1 After you have chosen your 10 fields of study, measure how good you are at each to find out your specialty. Koohii #2 10 brains glued together allows you to specialize in any specialty that you want. Imagine each brain having its own specialty. Primitives specialty, ten, needle, rice field, brains, glue 専用(せんよう): exclusive use, personal use 専修(せんしゅう): specialization 専ら(もっぱら): wholly, solely, entirely 専攻(せんこう): major subject, special study 専制(せんせい): despotism, autocracy Kunyomi: もっぱ.ら Onyomi: セン Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 専ら (もっぱ.ら)	specialty 専 画数9 47 Details Story Dictionary 専 specialty My Story A *TNT pump* and some *glue* create a specialty weapon for ISIS Koohii #1 After you have chosen your 10 fields of study, measure how good you are at each to find out your specialty. Koohii #2 10 brains glued together allows you to specialize in any specialty that you want. Imagine each brain having its own specialty. Primitives specialty, ten, needle, rice field, brains, glue 専用(せんよう): exclusive use, personal use 専修(せんしゅう): specialization 専ら(もっぱら): wholly, solely, entirely 専攻(せんこう): major subject, special study 専制(せんせい): despotism, autocracy Kunyomi: もっぱ.ら Onyomi: セン Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 専ら (もっぱ.ら)
"Dr. (PhD) Details Story Dictionary 博 Dr. (PhD) My Story My Phd: Shooting 10 needles of heroin is my specialty Needles (*10*) are a Dr. 's specialty Watch for {医}, the sooner the better! In fact this kanji refers to someone well ""learned"", with extensive knowledge. This could apply to any kind of field. The kanji 医 (""doctor"") is directly related to medicine. I would suggest to take away completely the idea of medicine here, and use a popular character whose name includes the keyword such as ""Dr. Who"", ""Dr. Jekyll"", even ""Dr. Dobb's"" if you're into programming. * The primitive form of this kanji eliminates the needle on the left and gets the meaning of an acupuncturist. Koohii #1 Ten specialties grants you the title of Dr. with a dot. Koohii #2 Watch for doctor (#1694), the sooner the better! In fact this kanji refers to someone well ""learned"", with extensive knowledge. This could apply to any kind of field. The kanji 医 (""doctor"") is directly related to medicine. I would suggest to take away completely the idea of medicine here, and use a popular character whose name includes the keyword such as ""Dr. Who"", ""Dr. Jekyll"", even ""Dr. Dobb´s"" if you´re into programming. Primitives Dr., ten, needle, acupuncturist, specialty, drop, ten, needle, rice field, brains, glue 博士(はかせ): doctorate, PhD 博物館(はくぶつかん): museum Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハク、バク Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 博識 (はくしき), 博覧 (はくらん), 博士号 (はくしごう)"	"Dr. (PhD) 博 画数12 48 Details Story Dictionary 博 Dr. (PhD) My Story My Phd: Shooting 10 needles of heroin is my specialty Needles (*10*) are a Dr. 's specialty Watch for {医}, the sooner the better! In fact this kanji refers to someone well ""learned"", with extensive knowledge. This could apply to any kind of field. The kanji 医 (""doctor"") is directly related to medicine. I would suggest to take away completely the idea of medicine here, and use a popular character whose name includes the keyword such as ""Dr. Who"", ""Dr. Jekyll"", even ""Dr. Dobb's"" if you're into programming. * The primitive form of this kanji eliminates the needle on the left and gets the meaning of an acupuncturist. Koohii #1 Ten specialties grants you the title of Dr. with a dot. Koohii #2 Watch for doctor (#1694), the sooner the better! In fact this kanji refers to someone well ""learned"", with extensive knowledge. This could apply to any kind of field. The kanji 医 (""doctor"") is directly related to medicine. I would suggest to take away completely the idea of medicine here, and use a popular character whose name includes the keyword such as ""Dr. Who"", ""Dr. Jekyll"", even ""Dr. Dobb´s"" if you´re into programming. Primitives Dr., ten, needle, acupuncturist, specialty, drop, ten, needle, rice field, brains, glue 博士(はかせ): doctorate, PhD 博物館(はくぶつかん): museum Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハク、バク Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 博識 (はくしき), 博覧 (はくらん), 博士号 (はくしごう)"
"fortune-telling Details Story Dictionary 占 fortune-telling My Story [ト + 口] Fortune-telling requires you to speak {口} from above {上}. My nigga *ト*トロ a mouth with a magic wand is fortune telling Koohii #1 Fortune-telling: using a mouth as a divining rod. Koohii #2 A great number of people who do fortune-telling are ""almost old"". Primitives fortune-telling, magic wand, augury, divining rod, mouth 占領(せんりょう): occupation, capture, possession, have a room to oneself 独占(どくせん): monopoly 占う(うらなう): forecast, predict 占める(しめる): comprise, account for, constitute, hold, occupy Kunyomi: し.める、うらな.う Onyomi: セン Lesson: 3 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 占う (うらな.う), 占める (し.める)"	"fortune-telling 占 画数5 49 Details Story Dictionary 占 fortune-telling My Story [ト + 口] Fortune-telling requires you to speak {口} from above {上}. My nigga *ト*トロ a mouth with a magic wand is fortune telling Koohii #1 Fortune-telling: using a mouth as a divining rod. Koohii #2 A great number of people who do fortune-telling are ""almost old"". Primitives fortune-telling, magic wand, augury, divining rod, mouth 占領(せんりょう): occupation, capture, possession, have a room to oneself 独占(どくせん): monopoly 占う(うらなう): forecast, predict 占める(しめる): comprise, account for, constitute, hold, occupy Kunyomi: し.める、うらな.う Onyomi: セン Lesson: 3 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 占う (うらな.う), 占める (し.める)"
"above Details Story Dictionary 上 above Heisig's The two directions, above and below, are usually pointed at with the finger. But the characters do not follow that custom, so we have to choose something else, easily remembered. The primitives show a magic wand standing above a floor - ""magically,"" you might say. Anyway, go right on to the next frame, since the two belong together and are best remembered as a unit, just as the words above and below suggest each other. Koohii #1 A magic wand standing on above the floor. Koohii #2 Above all else, be grounded if you are going to practice augury (#2103)卜. You could turn yourself into a トoad...　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ジョウ　以上　いじょう(above)　　　　ショウ　上人　しょうにん(saint). Primitives above, magic wand, augury, divining rod, one, floor 上がり(あがり): slope, advance income, crop yield, ascent, rise, advance, death, spinning, completion, stop, finish, after (rain), ex (official etc.), freshly-drawn green tea (esp. in sushi shops) 上下(うえした): high and low, up and down, unloading and loading, praising and blaming 上手(うわて): upper part, upper stream, left side (of a stage), skillful (only in comparisons), dexterity (only in comparisons) 上回る(うわまわる): to exceed お手上げ(おてあげ): all over, given in, given up hope, bring to knees 向上(こうじょう): elevation, rise, improvement, advancement, progress 逆上る(さかのぼる): to go back, to go upstream, to make retroactive 参上(さんじょう): calling on, visiting 仕上がり(しあがり): finish, end, completion 仕上げ(しあげ): end, finishing touches, being finished 仕上げる(しあげる): to finish up, to complete 上位(じょうい): superior (rank not class), higher order (e.g. byte), host computer (of connected device) 上演(じょうえん): performance (e.g. music) 上空(じょうくう): sky, the skies, high-altitude sky, upper air 上司(じょうし): superior authorities, boss 上昇(じょうしょう): rising, ascending, climbing 上陸(じょうりく): landing, disembarkation その上(そのうえ): in addition, furthermore 途上(とじょう): en route, half way 上る(のぼる): to rise, to ascend, to be promoted, to go up, to climb, to go to (the capital), to add up to, to advance (in price), to sail up, to come up (on the agenda) 引き上げる(ひきあげる): to withdraw, to leave, to pull out, to retire 真上(まうえ): just above, right overhead 盛り上がる(もりあがる): to rouse, to swell, to rise 読み上げる(よみあげる): to read out loud (and clearly), to call a roll 売上(うりあげ): amount sold, proceeds 上(かみ): top, head, upper part, emperor, a superior, upper part of the body, the above 仕上がる(しあがる): be finished 上(じょう): first volume, superior quality, top, best, high class, going up 上級(じょうきゅう): advanced level, high grade, senior 上京(じょうきょう): proceeding to the capital (Tokyo) 上下(じょうげ): high and low, up and down, unloading and loading, praising and blaming 上旬(じょうじゅん): first 10 days of month 上達(じょうたつ): improvement, advance, progress 上等(じょうとう): superiority, first-class, very good 立ち上がる(たちあがる): stand up 頂上(ちょうじょう): top, summit, peak 出来上がり(できあがり): finish, completion, ready, made for, cut out 出来上がる(できあがる): be finished, be ready, by definition, be very drunk 取り上げる(とりあげる): take up, pick up, disqualify, confiscate, deprive 上り(のぼり): ascent, climbing, up-train (i.e. going to Tokyo) 目上(めうえ): superior(s), senior 持ち上げる(もちあげる): raise, lift up, flatter 上がる(あがる): go up, rise 以上(いじょう): more than, over 屋上(おくじょう): the roof top 差し上げる(さしあげる): give 召し上がる(めしあがる): eat (polite) 申し上げる(もうしあげる): say (polite) 上げる(あげる): give, raise, elevate, praise, increase, advance, promote, admit, offer, present, leave with, finish, observe, perform, quote, mention, bear (a child), improve (talents), arrest, engage, fry 上(うえ): top, best, superior quality, going up, presenting, showing, aboard a ship or vehicle, from the standpoint of, as a matter of (fact) 上着(うわぎ): coat, tunic, jacket, outer garment 上手(じょうず): skill, skillful, dexterity Kunyomi: うえ、-うえ、うわ-、かみ、あ.げる、-あ.げる、あ.がる、-あ.がる、あ.がり、-あ.がり、のぼ.る、のぼ.り、のぼ.せる、のぼ.す、よ.す Onyomi: ジョウ、ショウ、シャン Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 上旬 (じょうじゅん), 上昇 (じょうしょう), 地上 (ちじょう), 上がる (あ.がる), 上げる (あ.げる), 上 (うえ), 上 (かみ), 上す (のぼ.す), 上せる (のぼ.せる), 上る (のぼ.る)"	"above 上 画数3 50 Details Story Dictionary 上 above Heisig's The two directions, above and below, are usually pointed at with the finger. But the characters do not follow that custom, so we have to choose something else, easily remembered. The primitives show a magic wand standing above a floor - ""magically,"" you might say. Anyway, go right on to the next frame, since the two belong together and are best remembered as a unit, just as the words above and below suggest each other. Koohii #1 A magic wand standing on above the floor. Koohii #2 Above all else, be grounded if you are going to practice augury (#2103)卜. You could turn yourself into a トoad...　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ジョウ　以上　いじょう(above)　　　　ショウ　上人　しょうにん(saint). Primitives above, magic wand, augury, divining rod, one, floor 上がり(あがり): slope, advance income, crop yield, ascent, rise, advance, death, spinning, completion, stop, finish, after (rain), ex (official etc.), freshly-drawn green tea (esp. in sushi shops) 上下(うえした): high and low, up and down, unloading and loading, praising and blaming 上手(うわて): upper part, upper stream, left side (of a stage), skillful (only in comparisons), dexterity (only in comparisons) 上回る(うわまわる): to exceed お手上げ(おてあげ): all over, given in, given up hope, bring to knees 向上(こうじょう): elevation, rise, improvement, advancement, progress 逆上る(さかのぼる): to go back, to go upstream, to make retroactive 参上(さんじょう): calling on, visiting 仕上がり(しあがり): finish, end, completion 仕上げ(しあげ): end, finishing touches, being finished 仕上げる(しあげる): to finish up, to complete 上位(じょうい): superior (rank not class), higher order (e.g. byte), host computer (of connected device) 上演(じょうえん): performance (e.g. music) 上空(じょうくう): sky, the skies, high-altitude sky, upper air 上司(じょうし): superior authorities, boss 上昇(じょうしょう): rising, ascending, climbing 上陸(じょうりく): landing, disembarkation その上(そのうえ): in addition, furthermore 途上(とじょう): en route, half way 上る(のぼる): to rise, to ascend, to be promoted, to go up, to climb, to go to (the capital), to add up to, to advance (in price), to sail up, to come up (on the agenda) 引き上げる(ひきあげる): to withdraw, to leave, to pull out, to retire 真上(まうえ): just above, right overhead 盛り上がる(もりあがる): to rouse, to swell, to rise 読み上げる(よみあげる): to read out loud (and clearly), to call a roll 売上(うりあげ): amount sold, proceeds 上(かみ): top, head, upper part, emperor, a superior, upper part of the body, the above 仕上がる(しあがる): be finished 上(じょう): first volume, superior quality, top, best, high class, going up 上級(じょうきゅう): advanced level, high grade, senior 上京(じょうきょう): proceeding to the capital (Tokyo) 上下(じょうげ): high and low, up and down, unloading and loading, praising and blaming 上旬(じょうじゅん): first 10 days of month 上達(じょうたつ): improvement, advance, progress 上等(じょうとう): superiority, first-class, very good 立ち上がる(たちあがる): stand up 頂上(ちょうじょう): top, summit, peak 出来上がり(できあがり): finish, completion, ready, made for, cut out 出来上がる(できあがる): be finished, be ready, by definition, be very drunk 取り上げる(とりあげる): take up, pick up, disqualify, confiscate, deprive 上り(のぼり): ascent, climbing, up-train (i.e. going to Tokyo) 目上(めうえ): superior(s), senior 持ち上げる(もちあげる): raise, lift up, flatter 上がる(あがる): go up, rise 以上(いじょう): more than, over 屋上(おくじょう): the roof top 差し上げる(さしあげる): give 召し上がる(めしあがる): eat (polite) 申し上げる(もうしあげる): say (polite) 上げる(あげる): give, raise, elevate, praise, increase, advance, promote, admit, offer, present, leave with, finish, observe, perform, quote, mention, bear (a child), improve (talents), arrest, engage, fry 上(うえ): top, best, superior quality, going up, presenting, showing, aboard a ship or vehicle, from the standpoint of, as a matter of (fact) 上着(うわぎ): coat, tunic, jacket, outer garment 上手(じょうず): skill, skillful, dexterity Kunyomi: うえ、-うえ、うわ-、かみ、あ.げる、-あ.げる、あ.がる、-あ.がる、あ.がり、-あ.がり、のぼ.る、のぼ.り、のぼ.せる、のぼ.す、よ.す Onyomi: ジョウ、ショウ、シャン Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 上旬 (じょうじゅん), 上昇 (じょうしょう), 地上 (ちじょう), 上がる (あ.がる), 上げる (あ.げる), 上 (うえ), 上 (かみ), 上す (のぼ.す), 上せる (のぼ.せる), 上る (のぼ.る)"
below Details Story Dictionary 下 below Heisig's Here we see our famous miraculous magic wand hanging, all on its own, below the ceiling, as you probably already guessed would happen. In addition to giving us two new kanji, the two shapes given in this and the preceding frame also serve to fix the use of the primitives for ceiling and floor, by drawing our attention successively to the line standing above and below the primitive element to which it is related. Koohii #1 Roots are below the ground. Koohii #2 A magic wand hanging below the ceiling. Primitives below, one, ceiling, magic wand, augury, divining rod 上下(うえした): high and low, up and down, unloading and loading, praising and blaming 下位(かい): low rank, subordinate, lower order (e.g. byte) 下番(かばん): going off duty 下品(かひん): inferior article 下吏(かり): lower official 下さる(くださる): give (polite) 下痢(げり): diarrhoea 下心(したごころ): secret intention, motive 下地(したじ): groundwork, foundation, inclination, aptitude, elementary knowledge of, grounding in, prearrangement, spadework, signs, symptoms, first coat of plastering, soy 下調べ(したしらべ): preliminary investigation, preparation 下取り(したどり): trade in, part exchange 下火(したび): burning low, waning, declining 城下(じょうか): land near the castle 引き下げる(ひきさげる): to pull down, to lower, to reduce, to withdraw 部下(ぶか): subordinate person ぶら下げる(ぶらさげる): to hang, to suspend, to dangle, to swing 真下(ました): right under, directly below 落下(らっか): fall, drop, come down 下す(おろす): take down, launch, drop, lower, let (a person) off, unload, discharge 下降(かこう): downward, descent, fall, drop 下線(かせん): underline 下り(くだり): down-train (going away from Tokyo) 下る(くだる): go down, descend, leave 下車(げしゃ): alighting, getting off 下旬(げじゅん): last third of month 下水(げすい): drainage, sewage, ditch, gutter 下駄(げた): wooden clogs 下品(げひん): inferior article 下る(さがる): hang down, abate, retire, fall, step back 下書き(したがき): rough copy, draft 下町(したまち): Shitamachi, lower parts of town 下(しも): lower, last 上下(じょうげ): high and low, up and down, unloading and loading, praising and blaming 地下(ちか): basement, underground 地下水(ちかすい): underground water 低下(ていか): decline, deterioration 見下ろす(みおろす): overlook, command a view of 目下(めした): subordinate(s), inferior(s), junior 廊下(ろうか): corridor 以下(いか): ~ or less than?not more than 下りる(おりる): come down 下宿(げしゅく): lodge 下がる(さがる): down 下げる(さげる): hang, let down 下着(したぎ): underwear 靴下(くつした): socks 下(した): under, below, beneath 地下鉄(ちかてつ): underground train, subway 下手(へた): unskillful, poor, awkward Kunyomi: した、しも、もと、さ.げる、さ.がる、くだ.る、くだ.り、くだ.す、-くだ.す、くだ.さる、お.ろす、お.りる Onyomi: カ、ゲ Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 下流 (かりゅう), 下降 (かこう), 落下 (らっか), 下りる (お.りる), 下ろす (お.ろす), 下さる (くだ.さる), 下す (くだ.す), 下る (くだ.る), 下がる (さ.がる), 下げる (さ.げる), 下 (した), 下 (しも), 下 (もと)	below 下 画数3 51 Details Story Dictionary 下 below Heisig's Here we see our famous miraculous magic wand hanging, all on its own, below the ceiling, as you probably already guessed would happen. In addition to giving us two new kanji, the two shapes given in this and the preceding frame also serve to fix the use of the primitives for ceiling and floor, by drawing our attention successively to the line standing above and below the primitive element to which it is related. Koohii #1 Roots are below the ground. Koohii #2 A magic wand hanging below the ceiling. Primitives below, one, ceiling, magic wand, augury, divining rod 上下(うえした): high and low, up and down, unloading and loading, praising and blaming 下位(かい): low rank, subordinate, lower order (e.g. byte) 下番(かばん): going off duty 下品(かひん): inferior article 下吏(かり): lower official 下さる(くださる): give (polite) 下痢(げり): diarrhoea 下心(したごころ): secret intention, motive 下地(したじ): groundwork, foundation, inclination, aptitude, elementary knowledge of, grounding in, prearrangement, spadework, signs, symptoms, first coat of plastering, soy 下調べ(したしらべ): preliminary investigation, preparation 下取り(したどり): trade in, part exchange 下火(したび): burning low, waning, declining 城下(じょうか): land near the castle 引き下げる(ひきさげる): to pull down, to lower, to reduce, to withdraw 部下(ぶか): subordinate person ぶら下げる(ぶらさげる): to hang, to suspend, to dangle, to swing 真下(ました): right under, directly below 落下(らっか): fall, drop, come down 下す(おろす): take down, launch, drop, lower, let (a person) off, unload, discharge 下降(かこう): downward, descent, fall, drop 下線(かせん): underline 下り(くだり): down-train (going away from Tokyo) 下る(くだる): go down, descend, leave 下車(げしゃ): alighting, getting off 下旬(げじゅん): last third of month 下水(げすい): drainage, sewage, ditch, gutter 下駄(げた): wooden clogs 下品(げひん): inferior article 下る(さがる): hang down, abate, retire, fall, step back 下書き(したがき): rough copy, draft 下町(したまち): Shitamachi, lower parts of town 下(しも): lower, last 上下(じょうげ): high and low, up and down, unloading and loading, praising and blaming 地下(ちか): basement, underground 地下水(ちかすい): underground water 低下(ていか): decline, deterioration 見下ろす(みおろす): overlook, command a view of 目下(めした): subordinate(s), inferior(s), junior 廊下(ろうか): corridor 以下(いか): ~ or less than?not more than 下りる(おりる): come down 下宿(げしゅく): lodge 下がる(さがる): down 下げる(さげる): hang, let down 下着(したぎ): underwear 靴下(くつした): socks 下(した): under, below, beneath 地下鉄(ちかてつ): underground train, subway 下手(へた): unskillful, poor, awkward Kunyomi: した、しも、もと、さ.げる、さ.がる、くだ.る、くだ.り、くだ.す、-くだ.す、くだ.さる、お.ろす、お.りる Onyomi: カ、ゲ Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 下流 (かりゅう), 下降 (かこう), 落下 (らっか), 下りる (お.りる), 下ろす (お.ろす), 下さる (くだ.さる), 下す (くだ.す), 下る (くだ.る), 下がる (さ.がる), 下げる (さ.げる), 下 (した), 下 (しも), 下 (もと)
eminent / table (dinner) Details Story Dictionary 卓 eminent / table (dinner) My Story [ト + 早] The magician who uses a *sun flower* (早) as a *wand* (ト) is very eminent (famous and respected within a particular sphere). The world's most #eminent# sorcerer, Harry Potter, used his *magic wand early* in life. Koohii #1 The most eminent magician is he who learned to use his magic wand early in life. Koohii #2 The eminent sunflower is the one that stands above the others. Primitives eminent, magic wand, augury, divinging rod, sunflower, sun, day, ten, needle 食卓(しょくたく): dining table Kunyomi: Onyomi: タク Lesson: 3 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	eminent / table (dinner) 卓 画数8 52 Details Story Dictionary 卓 eminent / table (dinner) My Story [ト + 早] The magician who uses a *sun flower* (早) as a *wand* (ト) is very eminent (famous and respected within a particular sphere). The world's most #eminent# sorcerer, Harry Potter, used his *magic wand early* in life. Koohii #1 The most eminent magician is he who learned to use his magic wand early in life. Koohii #2 The eminent sunflower is the one that stands above the others. Primitives eminent, magic wand, augury, divinging rod, sunflower, sun, day, ten, needle 食卓(しょくたく): dining table Kunyomi: Onyomi: タク Lesson: 3 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"morning Details Story Dictionary 朝 morning My Story Morning has come *ten* hours *early*!!! The ""moon"" is still in the sky! Koohii #1 There is mist as the moon fades away in the morning. Koohii #2 Morning has come ""ten"" hours ""early""!!! The ""moon"" is still in the sky! Primitives morning, mist, ten, needle, early, sun, day, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, ten2, needle2 朝寝坊(あさねぼう): over sleep 朝(あさ): morning 朝御飯(あさごはん): breakfast 今朝(けさ): this morning 毎朝(まいあさ): every morning Kunyomi: あさ Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 朝 (あさ)"	"morning 朝 画数12 53 Details Story Dictionary 朝 morning My Story Morning has come *ten* hours *early*!!! The ""moon"" is still in the sky! Koohii #1 There is mist as the moon fades away in the morning. Koohii #2 Morning has come ""ten"" hours ""early""!!! The ""moon"" is still in the sky! Primitives morning, mist, ten, needle, early, sun, day, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, ten2, needle2 朝寝坊(あさねぼう): over sleep 朝(あさ): morning 朝御飯(あさごはん): breakfast 今朝(けさ): this morning 毎朝(まいあさ): every morning Kunyomi: あさ Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 3 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 朝 (あさ)"
derision (Mockery/ridicule) Details Story Dictionary 嘲 derision (Mockery/ridicule) My Story [Mouth + Morning] If your *mouth* is on a dick in the *morning*, you will be #ridiculed#, called a slut! Koohii #1 When I wake up, I am always late, so I hurry to work. With a bad case of perpetual morning breath, I am the subject of derision at my office whenever I open my mouth. Koohii #2 If morning breath emanates from your mouth, you are subject to derision! Primitives derision, mouth, morning , mist, ten, needle, early, sun, day, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, ten2, needle2 Kunyomi: あざけ.る Onyomi: チョウ、トウ Lesson: 3 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 嘲る (あざけ.る)	derision (Mockery/ridicule) 嘲 画数15 54 Details Story Dictionary 嘲 derision (Mockery/ridicule) My Story [Mouth + Morning] If your *mouth* is on a dick in the *morning*, you will be #ridiculed#, called a slut! Koohii #1 When I wake up, I am always late, so I hurry to work. With a bad case of perpetual morning breath, I am the subject of derision at my office whenever I open my mouth. Koohii #2 If morning breath emanates from your mouth, you are subject to derision! Primitives derision, mouth, morning , mist, ten, needle, early, sun, day, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, ten2, needle2 Kunyomi: あざけ.る Onyomi: チョウ、トウ Lesson: 3 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 嘲る (あざけ.る)
"only Details Story Dictionary 只 only Heisig's When we run across abstract key words like this one, the best way to get an image it to recall some common but suggestive phrase in which the word appears. For instance, we can think of the expression ""it's the only one of its kind."" Then we imagine a barker at a side-show advertising some strange pac-manlike creature he has inside his tent, with only a gigantic mouth and two wee animal legs. Koohii #1 Imagine an animal with only a mouth and legs. Koohii #2 My girlfriend insists that the only thing I want from her is what´s between her legs.. She´s drawn me this pictograph to demonstrate. It´s a head and two legs spread apart.. I explain that I also love her breasts, and then she smacks me in the face. I´ll never understand women.. (I keep failing this kanji, hopefully this silly story will help me!). Primitives only, mouth, animal legs, eight 只(ただ): trivial matter Kunyomi: ただ Onyomi: シ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"only 只 画数5 55 Details Story Dictionary 只 only Heisig's When we run across abstract key words like this one, the best way to get an image it to recall some common but suggestive phrase in which the word appears. For instance, we can think of the expression ""it's the only one of its kind."" Then we imagine a barker at a side-show advertising some strange pac-manlike creature he has inside his tent, with only a gigantic mouth and two wee animal legs. Koohii #1 Imagine an animal with only a mouth and legs. Koohii #2 My girlfriend insists that the only thing I want from her is what´s between her legs.. She´s drawn me this pictograph to demonstrate. It´s a head and two legs spread apart.. I explain that I also love her breasts, and then she smacks me in the face. I´ll never understand women.. (I keep failing this kanji, hopefully this silly story will help me!). Primitives only, mouth, animal legs, eight 只(ただ): trivial matter Kunyomi: ただ Onyomi: シ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
shellfish / Money Details Story Dictionary 貝 shellfish / Money My Story Dont confuse with {頁} * When used as a primitive, in addition to shells, the meanings oyster and clam will often come in handy. Koohii #1 Eye thought I saw a shellfish legging it down the beach! Koohii #2 Stare at the shellfish, it looks like an eye with legs. Primitives shellfish, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 貝殻(かいがら): shell 貝(かい): shell, shellfish Kunyomi: かい Onyomi: バイ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 貝 (かい)	shellfish / Money 貝 画数7 56 Details Story Dictionary 貝 shellfish / Money My Story Dont confuse with {頁} * When used as a primitive, in addition to shells, the meanings oyster and clam will often come in handy. Koohii #1 Eye thought I saw a shellfish legging it down the beach! Koohii #2 Stare at the shellfish, it looks like an eye with legs. Primitives shellfish, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 貝殻(かいがら): shell 貝(かい): shell, shellfish Kunyomi: かい Onyomi: バイ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 貝 (かい)
"pop song Details Story Dictionary 唄 pop song Heisig's There is a lot of money to be made of one's songs are ""popular."" This is depicted here as a stream of clams spewing out of the mouth of someone performing a pop song. Koohii #1 The new generation of pop songs have no depth. They just mouth empty lyrics to get money. Not like the pop songs of my day. Koohii #2 A new way for sluts to use their mouths to make alot of money. Primitives pop song, mouth, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: うた、うた.う Onyomi: バイ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 唄 (うた)"	"pop song 唄 画数10 57 Details Story Dictionary 唄 pop song Heisig's There is a lot of money to be made of one's songs are ""popular."" This is depicted here as a stream of clams spewing out of the mouth of someone performing a pop song. Koohii #1 The new generation of pop songs have no depth. They just mouth empty lyrics to get money. Not like the pop songs of my day. Koohii #2 A new way for sluts to use their mouths to make alot of money. Primitives pop song, mouth, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: うた、うた.う Onyomi: バイ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 唄 (うた)"
upright Details Story Dictionary 貞 upright Heisig's Now take the last primitive, the shellfish, and set a magic wand over it, and you have the kanji for upright. After all, the clam and the oyster are incapable of walking upright. It would take a magician with his wand to pull off such a feat - which is precisely what we have in this kanji. Koohii #1 A magic wand is needed to make a clam stand upright. Koohii #2 Just the thought of my magic wand on her clam makes my magic wand stand upright. Primitives upright, magic wand, augury, divining rod, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: さだ Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	upright 貞 画数9 58 Details Story Dictionary 貞 upright Heisig's Now take the last primitive, the shellfish, and set a magic wand over it, and you have the kanji for upright. After all, the clam and the oyster are incapable of walking upright. It would take a magician with his wand to pull off such a feat - which is precisely what we have in this kanji. Koohii #1 A magic wand is needed to make a clam stand upright. Koohii #2 Just the thought of my magic wand on her clam makes my magic wand stand upright. Primitives upright, magic wand, augury, divining rod, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: さだ Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
employee Details Story Dictionary 員 employee Heisig's How do we get a mouth over a shellfish to mean an employee? Simple. Just remember the advice new employees get about keeping their mouths shut and doing their job, and then make that more graphic by picturing an office building full of white collar workers scurrying around with clams pinched to their mouths. Koohii #1 An employee (member of the company) has to clam up his mouth if he wants keep the job! Koohii #2 An employee is basically a shellfish with a mouth. Primitives employee, mouth, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 員(いん): member 教員(きょういん): teaching staff 行員(こういん): bank clerk 従業員(じゅうぎょういん): employee, worker 職員(しょくいん): staff member, personnel 動員(どういん): mobilization 委員(いいん): committee member 会員(かいいん): member, the membership 議員(ぎいん): member of the Diet, congress or parliament 工員(こういん): factory worker 全員(ぜんいん): all members (unanimity), all hands, the whole crew 定員(ていいん): fixed number of regular personnel, capacity (of boat, hall, aeroplane, etc.) 満員(まんいん): full house, no vacancy, sold out, standing room only, full (of people), crowded 公務員(こうむいん): public servant 店員(てんいん): salesclerk Kunyomi: Onyomi: イン Lesson: 4 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:	employee 員 画数10 59 Details Story Dictionary 員 employee Heisig's How do we get a mouth over a shellfish to mean an employee? Simple. Just remember the advice new employees get about keeping their mouths shut and doing their job, and then make that more graphic by picturing an office building full of white collar workers scurrying around with clams pinched to their mouths. Koohii #1 An employee (member of the company) has to clam up his mouth if he wants keep the job! Koohii #2 An employee is basically a shellfish with a mouth. Primitives employee, mouth, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 員(いん): member 教員(きょういん): teaching staff 行員(こういん): bank clerk 従業員(じゅうぎょういん): employee, worker 職員(しょくいん): staff member, personnel 動員(どういん): mobilization 委員(いいん): committee member 会員(かいいん): member, the membership 議員(ぎいん): member of the Diet, congress or parliament 工員(こういん): factory worker 全員(ぜんいん): all members (unanimity), all hands, the whole crew 定員(ていいん): fixed number of regular personnel, capacity (of boat, hall, aeroplane, etc.) 満員(まんいん): full house, no vacancy, sold out, standing room only, full (of people), crowded 公務員(こうむいん): public servant 店員(てんいん): salesclerk Kunyomi: Onyomi: イン Lesson: 4 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:
post a bill Details Story Dictionary 貼 post a bill Heisig's The key word in this frame has do with posting bills to a billboard. In this case, the billboard is standing at the exit to a Chinese restaurant displaying the latest alternative to the tradition fortune-telling cookies. Look closely and you will see rows of leftover shells of clams with little slips of paper sticking out of them posted to the billboard. Koohii #1 Fortune teller writes your fortune on a piece of paper and tells you to affix it to a shell and throw into the ocean for it to come true. Picture licking the back of the shell like a stamp and affixing it to the fortune. Koohii #2 I gots a fix for your current bad luck: just pass some extra clams over to the fortune teller, and they will make sure you have a very bright fate instore. Primitives affix, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, fortune-telling, magic wand, augury, mouth 貼る(はる): to stick, paste Kunyomi: は.る、つ.く Onyomi: テン、チョウ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 貼る (は.る)	post a bill 貼 画数12 60 Details Story Dictionary 貼 post a bill Heisig's The key word in this frame has do with posting bills to a billboard. In this case, the billboard is standing at the exit to a Chinese restaurant displaying the latest alternative to the tradition fortune-telling cookies. Look closely and you will see rows of leftover shells of clams with little slips of paper sticking out of them posted to the billboard. Koohii #1 Fortune teller writes your fortune on a piece of paper and tells you to affix it to a shell and throw into the ocean for it to come true. Picture licking the back of the shell like a stamp and affixing it to the fortune. Koohii #2 I gots a fix for your current bad luck: just pass some extra clams over to the fortune teller, and they will make sure you have a very bright fate instore. Primitives affix, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, fortune-telling, magic wand, augury, mouth 貼る(はる): to stick, paste Kunyomi: は.る、つ.く Onyomi: テン、チョウ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 貼る (は.る)
see Details Story Dictionary 見 see Heisig's The elements that compose the character for see are the eye firmly fixed to a pair of human legs. Surely, somewhere in your experience, there is a vivid image just waiting to be dragged up to help you remember this character.... Koohii #1 As a primitive, this is Mike Wazowski from Monsters Inc. (the giant eyeball with legs...) Makes for easy stories later on. Koohii #2 Eyes and legs are all you need to see the world. Primitives see, eye, human legs 異見(いけん): different opinion, objection 一見(いちげん): unfamiliar, never before met 会見(かいけん): interview, audience 見地(けんち): point of view 偏見(へんけん): prejudice, narrow view 見合い(みあい): formal marriage interview 見合わせる(みあわせる): to exchange glances, to postpone, to suspend operations, to refrain from performing an action 見落とす(みおとす): to overlook, to fail to notice 見掛ける(みかける): to (happen to) see, to notice, to catch sight of 見方(みかた): viewpoint 見苦しい(みぐるしい): unsightly, ugly 見込み(みこみ): hope, prospects, expectation 見すぼらしい(みすぼらしい): shabby, seedy 見せびらかす(みせびらかす): to show off, to flaunt 見せ物(みせもの): show, exhibition 見積り(みつもり): estimation, quotation 見通し(みとおし): perspective, unobstructed view, outlook, forecast, prospect, insight 見逃す(みのがす): to miss, to overlook, to leave at large 見晴らし(みはらし): view 見舞(みまい): enquiry, expression of sympathy, expression of concern 見渡す(みわたす): to look out over, to survey (scene), to take an extensive view of 目論見(もくろみ): a plan, a scheme, a project, a program, intention, goal 余所見(よそみ): looking away, looking aside 見解(けんかい): opinion, point of view 見学(けんがく): inspection, study by observation, field trip 見当(けんとう): be found, aim, mark, estimate, guess, approximation, direction, 発見(はっけん): discovery, detection, finding 花見(はなみ): cherry blossom viewing, flower viewing 見送り(みおくり): seeing one off, farewell, escort 見送る(みおくる): see off, escort, let pass, wait and see 見下ろす(みおろす): overlook, command a view of 見掛け(みかけ): outward appearance 見事(みごと): splendid, magnificent, beautiful, admirable 見出し(みだし): heading, caption, subtitle, index 見付かる(みつかる): be found, be discovered 見付ける(みつける): discover, find fault, detect, find out, locate, be familiar 見直す(みなおす): look again, form a better opinion of 見慣れる(みなれる): become used to seeing, be familiar with 見本(みほん): sample 見舞い(みまい): enquiry, expression of sympathy or concern 見舞う(みまう): ask after (health), visit 意見(いけん): opinion お見舞い(おみまい): asking after (a person´s health) 見物(けんぶつ): sightseeing, see, look at 拝見(はいけん): see, look 見える(みえる): see, can be seen 見つかる(みつかる): be found 見つける(みつける): find out 見せる(みせる): to show, to display 見る(みる): to see, to watch Kunyomi: み.る、み.える、み.せる Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 4 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 見える (み.える), 見せる (み.せる), 見る (み.る)	see 見 画数7 61 Details Story Dictionary 見 see Heisig's The elements that compose the character for see are the eye firmly fixed to a pair of human legs. Surely, somewhere in your experience, there is a vivid image just waiting to be dragged up to help you remember this character.... Koohii #1 As a primitive, this is Mike Wazowski from Monsters Inc. (the giant eyeball with legs...) Makes for easy stories later on. Koohii #2 Eyes and legs are all you need to see the world. Primitives see, eye, human legs 異見(いけん): different opinion, objection 一見(いちげん): unfamiliar, never before met 会見(かいけん): interview, audience 見地(けんち): point of view 偏見(へんけん): prejudice, narrow view 見合い(みあい): formal marriage interview 見合わせる(みあわせる): to exchange glances, to postpone, to suspend operations, to refrain from performing an action 見落とす(みおとす): to overlook, to fail to notice 見掛ける(みかける): to (happen to) see, to notice, to catch sight of 見方(みかた): viewpoint 見苦しい(みぐるしい): unsightly, ugly 見込み(みこみ): hope, prospects, expectation 見すぼらしい(みすぼらしい): shabby, seedy 見せびらかす(みせびらかす): to show off, to flaunt 見せ物(みせもの): show, exhibition 見積り(みつもり): estimation, quotation 見通し(みとおし): perspective, unobstructed view, outlook, forecast, prospect, insight 見逃す(みのがす): to miss, to overlook, to leave at large 見晴らし(みはらし): view 見舞(みまい): enquiry, expression of sympathy, expression of concern 見渡す(みわたす): to look out over, to survey (scene), to take an extensive view of 目論見(もくろみ): a plan, a scheme, a project, a program, intention, goal 余所見(よそみ): looking away, looking aside 見解(けんかい): opinion, point of view 見学(けんがく): inspection, study by observation, field trip 見当(けんとう): be found, aim, mark, estimate, guess, approximation, direction, 発見(はっけん): discovery, detection, finding 花見(はなみ): cherry blossom viewing, flower viewing 見送り(みおくり): seeing one off, farewell, escort 見送る(みおくる): see off, escort, let pass, wait and see 見下ろす(みおろす): overlook, command a view of 見掛け(みかけ): outward appearance 見事(みごと): splendid, magnificent, beautiful, admirable 見出し(みだし): heading, caption, subtitle, index 見付かる(みつかる): be found, be discovered 見付ける(みつける): discover, find fault, detect, find out, locate, be familiar 見直す(みなおす): look again, form a better opinion of 見慣れる(みなれる): become used to seeing, be familiar with 見本(みほん): sample 見舞い(みまい): enquiry, expression of sympathy or concern 見舞う(みまう): ask after (health), visit 意見(いけん): opinion お見舞い(おみまい): asking after (a person´s health) 見物(けんぶつ): sightseeing, see, look at 拝見(はいけん): see, look 見える(みえる): see, can be seen 見つかる(みつかる): be found 見つける(みつける): find out 見せる(みせる): to show, to display 見る(みる): to see, to watch Kunyomi: み.る、み.える、み.せる Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 4 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 見える (み.える), 見せる (み.せる), 見る (み.る)
newborn babe Details Story Dictionary 児 newborn babe My Story [Olden times/ 18 {旧} + Human legs] Compared to the *olden times*, 18 year olds are spreading their *legs* and birthing more #newborn babes# than ever before Koohii #1 In the olden times, a newborn babe came out legs first. Koohii #2 Only 18 and already got a newborn babe. Young girls are so quick to spread their legs these days...　　　RTK2:　ジ　児童　じどう　(child)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　ニ　小児　しょうに(infant). Primitives newborn babe, olden times, stick, sun, day, human legs 児(こ): child, the young of animals 孤児(こじ): orphan 小児科(しょうにか): pediatrics 育児(いくじ): childcare, nursing, upbringing 児童(じどう): children, juvenile 幼児(ようじ): infant, baby, child Kunyomi: こ、-こ、-っこ Onyomi: ジ、ニ、ゲイ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 児童 (じどう), 幼児 (ようじ), 優良児 (ゆうりょうじ)	newborn babe 児 画数7 62 Details Story Dictionary 児 newborn babe My Story [Olden times/ 18 {旧} + Human legs] Compared to the *olden times*, 18 year olds are spreading their *legs* and birthing more #newborn babes# than ever before Koohii #1 In the olden times, a newborn babe came out legs first. Koohii #2 Only 18 and already got a newborn babe. Young girls are so quick to spread their legs these days...　　　RTK2:　ジ　児童　じどう　(child)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　ニ　小児　しょうに(infant). Primitives newborn babe, olden times, stick, sun, day, human legs 児(こ): child, the young of animals 孤児(こじ): orphan 小児科(しょうにか): pediatrics 育児(いくじ): childcare, nursing, upbringing 児童(じどう): children, juvenile 幼児(ようじ): infant, baby, child Kunyomi: こ、-こ、-っこ Onyomi: ジ、ニ、ゲイ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 児童 (じどう), 幼児 (ようじ), 優良児 (ゆうりょうじ)
"beginning Details Story Dictionary 元 beginning Heisig's ""In the beginning..."" starts that marvelous shelf of books we call the Bible. It talks about how all things were made, and tells us that when the Creator came to humanity she made two of them, man and woman. While we presume she made two of every other animal as well, we are not told as much. Hence we need only two and a pair of human legs come to the kanji that means beginning. Koohii #1 In the beginning were just two who walked on human legs. Koohii #2 In the beginning God created woman, and God asked her how she liked his work. Woman replied, ""Well, you know how I have two eyes, two arms, two legs... it seems redundant to have three breasts. It would look more symmetrical with two."" God nodded, and the middle breast fell off... and it was good. Woman picked up the breast and said, ""Thank you, God! But what do I do with this useless boob?"" And God created man. That´s why the women today only have two boobs to match their two human legs. Primitives beginning, two, human legs 還元(かんげん): resolution, reduction, return to origins 元年(がんねん): first year (of a specific reign) 元来(がんらい): originally, primarily, essentially, logically, naturally 元首(げんしゅ): ruler, sovereign 元素(げんそ): chemical element 地元(じもと): local 手元(てもと): on hand, at hand, at home 元(もと): origin, original, former 元々(もともと): originally, by nature, from the start 元気(げんき): health(y), robust, vigor, energy, vitality, vim, stamina, spirit, courage, pep Kunyomi: もと Onyomi: ゲン、ガン Lesson: 4 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 元素 (げんそ), 元気 (げんき), 多元 (たげん), 元 (もと)"	"beginning 元 画数4 63 Details Story Dictionary 元 beginning Heisig's ""In the beginning..."" starts that marvelous shelf of books we call the Bible. It talks about how all things were made, and tells us that when the Creator came to humanity she made two of them, man and woman. While we presume she made two of every other animal as well, we are not told as much. Hence we need only two and a pair of human legs come to the kanji that means beginning. Koohii #1 In the beginning were just two who walked on human legs. Koohii #2 In the beginning God created woman, and God asked her how she liked his work. Woman replied, ""Well, you know how I have two eyes, two arms, two legs... it seems redundant to have three breasts. It would look more symmetrical with two."" God nodded, and the middle breast fell off... and it was good. Woman picked up the breast and said, ""Thank you, God! But what do I do with this useless boob?"" And God created man. That´s why the women today only have two boobs to match their two human legs. Primitives beginning, two, human legs 還元(かんげん): resolution, reduction, return to origins 元年(がんねん): first year (of a specific reign) 元来(がんらい): originally, primarily, essentially, logically, naturally 元首(げんしゅ): ruler, sovereign 元素(げんそ): chemical element 地元(じもと): local 手元(てもと): on hand, at hand, at home 元(もと): origin, original, former 元々(もともと): originally, by nature, from the start 元気(げんき): health(y), robust, vigor, energy, vitality, vim, stamina, spirit, courage, pep Kunyomi: もと Onyomi: ゲン、ガン Lesson: 4 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 元素 (げんそ), 元気 (げんき), 多元 (たげん), 元 (もと)"
"page Details Story Dictionary 頁 page Heisig's What we have to do here is turn a shellfish into a page of a book. The one at the top tells us that we only get a rather short book, in fact only one page. Imagine a title printed on the shell of an oyster, let us say ""Pearl of Wisdom,"" and then open the quaint book to its one and only page, on which you find a single, radiant drop of wisdom, one of the masterpiece poems of nature. * As a primitive, this kanji takes the unrelated meaning of a head (preferably one detached from its body), derived from the character for head (Frame 1549). Koohii #1 A shellfish carrying a page balanced on its head. Koohii #2 One drop of ink from a shellfish can fill a whole page. Primitives page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: ぺえじ、おおがい、かしら Onyomi: ケツ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"page 頁 画数9 64 Details Story Dictionary 頁 page Heisig's What we have to do here is turn a shellfish into a page of a book. The one at the top tells us that we only get a rather short book, in fact only one page. Imagine a title printed on the shell of an oyster, let us say ""Pearl of Wisdom,"" and then open the quaint book to its one and only page, on which you find a single, radiant drop of wisdom, one of the masterpiece poems of nature. * As a primitive, this kanji takes the unrelated meaning of a head (preferably one detached from its body), derived from the character for head (Frame 1549). Koohii #1 A shellfish carrying a page balanced on its head. Koohii #2 One drop of ink from a shellfish can fill a whole page. Primitives page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: ぺえじ、おおがい、かしら Onyomi: ケツ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:"
stubborn Details Story Dictionary 頑 stubborn My Story Stubborn people can't even read the *beginning* of a *page* (head). Koohii #1 A stubborn person in the beginning gets something into their head and can´t change their mind. Koohii #2 Picture a STUBBORN schoolboy, with his arms crossed and his book still open to the BEGINNING PAGE. Despite the teacher telling him to turn the page, he refuses and keeps his book on the BEGINNING PAGE. Primitives stubborn, beginning, two, human legs, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 頑固(がんこ): stubbornness, obstinacy 頑丈(がんじょう): solid, firm, stout, burly, strong, sturdy Kunyomi: かたく Onyomi: ガン Lesson: 4 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	stubborn 頑 画数13 65 Details Story Dictionary 頑 stubborn My Story Stubborn people can't even read the *beginning* of a *page* (head). Koohii #1 A stubborn person in the beginning gets something into their head and can´t change their mind. Koohii #2 Picture a STUBBORN schoolboy, with his arms crossed and his book still open to the BEGINNING PAGE. Despite the teacher telling him to turn the page, he refuses and keeps his book on the BEGINNING PAGE. Primitives stubborn, beginning, two, human legs, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 頑固(がんこ): stubbornness, obstinacy 頑丈(がんじょう): solid, firm, stout, burly, strong, sturdy Kunyomi: かたく Onyomi: ガン Lesson: 4 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
mediocre Details Story Dictionary 凡 mediocre My Story [Table/wind {几} (prim) + drop] The *table* (几) with some *planks*(丶) is so ordinary and mediocre Koohii #1 A drop of breeze is naught but a mediocre wind. Koohii #2 Is there anything as mediocre as a drop of piss in the wind? Primitives mediocre, drop, wind 凡そ(およそ): about, roughly, as a rule, approximately 大凡(おおよそ): about, roughly, approximately, as a rule 平凡(へいぼん): common, commonplace, ordinary, mediocre Kunyomi: およ.そ、おうよ.そ、すべ.て Onyomi: ボン、ハン Lesson: 4 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 凡人 (ぼんじん), 凡百 (ぼんひゃく), 平凡 (へいぼん)	mediocre 凡 画数3 66 Details Story Dictionary 凡 mediocre My Story [Table/wind {几} (prim) + drop] The *table* (几) with some *planks*(丶) is so ordinary and mediocre Koohii #1 A drop of breeze is naught but a mediocre wind. Koohii #2 Is there anything as mediocre as a drop of piss in the wind? Primitives mediocre, drop, wind 凡そ(およそ): about, roughly, as a rule, approximately 大凡(おおよそ): about, roughly, approximately, as a rule 平凡(へいぼん): common, commonplace, ordinary, mediocre Kunyomi: およ.そ、おうよ.そ、すべ.て Onyomi: ボン、ハン Lesson: 4 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 凡人 (ぼんじん), 凡百 (ぼんひゃく), 平凡 (へいぼん)
defeat Details Story Dictionary 負 defeat Heisig's Above we have the condensed form of bound up, and below the familiar shellfish. Now imagine two oysters engaged in shell-to-shell combat, the one who is defeated being bound and gagged with seaweed, the victor towering triumphantly over it. The bound shellfish thus becomes the symbol for defeat. Koohii #1 Tied up, the shellfish had to accept defeat! Koohii #2 Defeat is defined by a shellfish in binds. Primitives defeat, bound up, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 負う(おう): to bear, to owe 御負け(おまけ): a discount, a prize, something additional, bonus, an extra, an exaggeration 背負う(しょう): to be burdened with, to carry on back or shoulder 勝負(しょうぶ): victory or defeat, match, contest, game, bout 負債(ふさい): debt, liabilities 負傷(ふしょう): injury, wound 負担(ふたん): burden, charge, responsibility 負かす(まかす): to defeat 背負う(せおう): be burdened with, carry on back or shoulder 負け(まけ): defeat, loss, losing (a game) 負ける(まける): lose Kunyomi: ま.ける、ま.かす、お.う Onyomi: フ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 負う (お.う), 負かす (ま.かす), 負ける (ま.ける)	defeat 負 画数9 67 Details Story Dictionary 負 defeat Heisig's Above we have the condensed form of bound up, and below the familiar shellfish. Now imagine two oysters engaged in shell-to-shell combat, the one who is defeated being bound and gagged with seaweed, the victor towering triumphantly over it. The bound shellfish thus becomes the symbol for defeat. Koohii #1 Tied up, the shellfish had to accept defeat! Koohii #2 Defeat is defined by a shellfish in binds. Primitives defeat, bound up, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 負う(おう): to bear, to owe 御負け(おまけ): a discount, a prize, something additional, bonus, an extra, an exaggeration 背負う(しょう): to be burdened with, to carry on back or shoulder 勝負(しょうぶ): victory or defeat, match, contest, game, bout 負債(ふさい): debt, liabilities 負傷(ふしょう): injury, wound 負担(ふたん): burden, charge, responsibility 負かす(まかす): to defeat 背負う(せおう): be burdened with, carry on back or shoulder 負け(まけ): defeat, loss, losing (a game) 負ける(まける): lose Kunyomi: ま.ける、ま.かす、お.う Onyomi: フ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 負う (お.う), 負かす (ま.かす), 負ける (ま.ける)
"ten thousand Details Story Dictionary 万 ten thousand Heisig's Japanese counts higher numbers in units of ten thousand, unlike the West, which advances according to units of one thousand. (Thus, for instance, 40,000 would be read ""four ten-thousands"" by a Japanese.) Given that the comma is used in larger numbers to bind up a numerical unit of one thousand, the elements for one and bound up naturally come to form ten thousand. The order of strokes here needs special attention, both because it falls outside the general principles we have learned already, and because it involves writing the element for bound up in an order opposite to the one we learned. If it is any consolation, this exception is consistent every time these three strokes come together. Koohii #1 I bound ten thousand dollars together and hid it under the floor. Koohii #2 We have ""one"" at the top and if you turn the kanji 90 degrees you will see arabic 4 shich means it has four zeros in front of it! Primitives ten thousand, one, ceiling, bound up 万(ばん): many, all 万人(ばんじん): all people, everybody, 10000 people 万能(ばんのう): all-purpose, almighty, omnipotent 万歳(ばんざい): strolling comic dancer 万一(まんいち): by some chance, by some possibility, if by any chance, 10,000:1 odds 万(まん): 10,000, ten thousand, myriad(s), all, everything 万年筆(まんねんひつ): fountain pen Kunyomi: よろず Onyomi: マン、バン Lesson: 4 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 万一 (まんいち), 万年筆 (まんねんひつ), 巨万 (きょまん)"	"ten thousand 万 画数3 68 Details Story Dictionary 万 ten thousand Heisig's Japanese counts higher numbers in units of ten thousand, unlike the West, which advances according to units of one thousand. (Thus, for instance, 40,000 would be read ""four ten-thousands"" by a Japanese.) Given that the comma is used in larger numbers to bind up a numerical unit of one thousand, the elements for one and bound up naturally come to form ten thousand. The order of strokes here needs special attention, both because it falls outside the general principles we have learned already, and because it involves writing the element for bound up in an order opposite to the one we learned. If it is any consolation, this exception is consistent every time these three strokes come together. Koohii #1 I bound ten thousand dollars together and hid it under the floor. Koohii #2 We have ""one"" at the top and if you turn the kanji 90 degrees you will see arabic 4 shich means it has four zeros in front of it! Primitives ten thousand, one, ceiling, bound up 万(ばん): many, all 万人(ばんじん): all people, everybody, 10000 people 万能(ばんのう): all-purpose, almighty, omnipotent 万歳(ばんざい): strolling comic dancer 万一(まんいち): by some chance, by some possibility, if by any chance, 10,000:1 odds 万(まん): 10,000, ten thousand, myriad(s), all, everything 万年筆(まんねんひつ): fountain pen Kunyomi: よろず Onyomi: マン、バン Lesson: 4 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 万一 (まんいち), 万年筆 (まんねんひつ), 巨万 (きょまん)"
phrase Details Story Dictionary 句 phrase My Story [Bound + Mouth] Some Japanese #phrase#s are difficult to *wrap* your *mouth* around. Koohii #1 Some Japanese phrases are difficult to wrap your mouth around. Koohii #2 A bound mouth cannot utter a single phrase. Primitives phrase, bound up, mouth 佳句(かく): beautiful passage of literature 語句(ごく): words, phrases 句(く): phrase, clause, sentence, passage, paragraph, expression, line, verse, stanza, 17-syllable poem 句読点(くとうてん): punctuation marks 俳句(はいく): 17-syllable poem 文句(もんく): phrase, complaint Kunyomi: Onyomi: ク Lesson: 4 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 句 (く)	phrase 句 画数5 69 Details Story Dictionary 句 phrase My Story [Bound + Mouth] Some Japanese #phrase#s are difficult to *wrap* your *mouth* around. Koohii #1 Some Japanese phrases are difficult to wrap your mouth around. Koohii #2 A bound mouth cannot utter a single phrase. Primitives phrase, bound up, mouth 佳句(かく): beautiful passage of literature 語句(ごく): words, phrases 句(く): phrase, clause, sentence, passage, paragraph, expression, line, verse, stanza, 17-syllable poem 句読点(くとうてん): punctuation marks 俳句(はいく): 17-syllable poem 文句(もんく): phrase, complaint Kunyomi: Onyomi: ク Lesson: 4 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 句 (く)
texture Details Story Dictionary 肌 texture My Story [Moon/Organ + Wind] When you expose your flesh and *organs* to the *wind* it gets textured: goosebumps! Koohii #1 When you expose your flesh to the wind it gets textured: goosebumps! Koohii #2 The moon´s lack of wind preserves its texture. Primitives texture, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, wind 肌(はだ): skin, body, grain, texture, disposition 肌着(はだぎ): underwear, lingerie, singlet, chemise Kunyomi: はだ Onyomi: キ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 肌 (はだ)	texture 肌 画数6 70 Details Story Dictionary 肌 texture My Story [Moon/Organ + Wind] When you expose your flesh and *organs* to the *wind* it gets textured: goosebumps! Koohii #1 When you expose your flesh to the wind it gets textured: goosebumps! Koohii #2 The moon´s lack of wind preserves its texture. Primitives texture, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, wind 肌(はだ): skin, body, grain, texture, disposition 肌着(はだぎ): underwear, lingerie, singlet, chemise Kunyomi: はだ Onyomi: キ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 肌 (はだ)
decameron Details Story Dictionary 旬 decameron Heisig's There simply is not a good phrase in English for the block often days which this character represents. So we resurrect the classical phrase, decameron, whose connotations the tales of Boccaccio have done much to enrich. Actually, it refers to a journey of ten days taken by a band of people - that is, a group of people bound together for the days of the decameron. Koohii #1 Hesig should be BOUND for a DAY (or maybe 10 days - a decameron) for calling this Kanji DECAMERON. See martyrdom (#809). Koohii #2 If you bind up ten days, you get a decameron. Primitives decameron, bound up, sun, day 下旬(げじゅん): last third of month 上旬(じょうじゅん): first 10 days of month 初旬(しょじゅん): first 10 days of the month 中旬(ちゅうじゅん): second third of a month Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジュン、シュン Lesson: 4 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	decameron 旬 画数6 71 Details Story Dictionary 旬 decameron Heisig's There simply is not a good phrase in English for the block often days which this character represents. So we resurrect the classical phrase, decameron, whose connotations the tales of Boccaccio have done much to enrich. Actually, it refers to a journey of ten days taken by a band of people - that is, a group of people bound together for the days of the decameron. Koohii #1 Hesig should be BOUND for a DAY (or maybe 10 days - a decameron) for calling this Kanji DECAMERON. See martyrdom (#809). Koohii #2 If you bind up ten days, you get a decameron. Primitives decameron, bound up, sun, day 下旬(げじゅん): last third of month 上旬(じょうじゅん): first 10 days of month 初旬(しょじゅん): first 10 days of the month 中旬(ちゅうじゅん): second third of a month Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジュン、シュン Lesson: 4 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
ladle Details Story Dictionary 勺 ladle Heisig's If you want to bind up drops of anything - water, soup, lemonade - you use something to scoop these drops up, which is what we call a ladle. See the last drop left inside the ladle? Koohii #1 A ladle binds drops together. Koohii #2 Forget about the primative ´bound up´. Imagine instead the shape of a ladle and holding it upside down to drink the last DROP (of water). Primitives ladle, bound up, drop Kunyomi: Onyomi: シャク Lesson: 4 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	ladle 勺 画数3 72 Details Story Dictionary 勺 ladle Heisig's If you want to bind up drops of anything - water, soup, lemonade - you use something to scoop these drops up, which is what we call a ladle. See the last drop left inside the ladle? Koohii #1 A ladle binds drops together. Koohii #2 Forget about the primative ´bound up´. Imagine instead the shape of a ladle and holding it upside down to drink the last DROP (of water). Primitives ladle, bound up, drop Kunyomi: Onyomi: シャク Lesson: 4 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"bull´s eye Details Story Dictionary 的 bull´s eye Heisig's The elements white bird and ladle easily suggest the image of a bull's eye if you imagine a rusty old ladle with a bull's eye painted on it in the form of a tiny white bird, who lets out a little ""peep"" every time you hit the target. Koohii #1 I managed to hit the bull´s eye by throwing my white ladle. Koohii #2 A white, bound up, drop in the center is the bull´s eye. (why Heisig had to use ""ladle"" instead of the original two primitives that make up ""ladle"" I´ll never understand!). Primitives bull’s eye, white, dove, ladle, bound up, drop 静的(せいてき): static 先天的(せんてんてき): a priori, inborn, innate, inherent, congenital, hereditary 知的(ちてき): intellectual 的(てき): -like, typical 的確(てきかく): precise, accurate 動的(どうてき): dynamic, kinetic 的(まと): mark, target 消極的(しょうきょくてき): passive 積極的(せっきょくてき): positive, active, proactive 比較的(ひかくてき): comparatively, relatively 目的(もくてき): purpose, goal, aim, objective, intention Kunyomi: まと Onyomi: テキ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: Compounds: 的 (まと)"	"bull´s eye 的 画数8 73 Details Story Dictionary 的 bull´s eye Heisig's The elements white bird and ladle easily suggest the image of a bull's eye if you imagine a rusty old ladle with a bull's eye painted on it in the form of a tiny white bird, who lets out a little ""peep"" every time you hit the target. Koohii #1 I managed to hit the bull´s eye by throwing my white ladle. Koohii #2 A white, bound up, drop in the center is the bull´s eye. (why Heisig had to use ""ladle"" instead of the original two primitives that make up ""ladle"" I´ll never understand!). Primitives bull’s eye, white, dove, ladle, bound up, drop 静的(せいてき): static 先天的(せんてんてき): a priori, inborn, innate, inherent, congenital, hereditary 知的(ちてき): intellectual 的(てき): -like, typical 的確(てきかく): precise, accurate 動的(どうてき): dynamic, kinetic 的(まと): mark, target 消極的(しょうきょくてき): passive 積極的(せっきょくてき): positive, active, proactive 比較的(ひかくてき): comparatively, relatively 目的(もくてき): purpose, goal, aim, objective, intention Kunyomi: まと Onyomi: テキ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: Compounds: 的 (まと)"
neck Details Story Dictionary 首 neck My Story During sex, you stick your *legs* over your *head* and neck Koohii #1 The V shape is your neck on top of your collar bone, or the straight line. Yourself, or the rest of your body is below that! Koohii #2 The mooses neck supports it´s big horns and long nose. Primitives neck, horns, nose, one, ceiling, drop, eye 首飾り(くびかざり): necklace 首輪(くびわ): necklace, choker 元首(げんしゅ): ruler, sovereign 自首(じしゅ): surrender, give oneself up 首脳(しゅのう): head, brains 首相(しゅしょう): Prime Minister, Chancellor (Germany, Austria, etc.) 首都(しゅと): capital city 手首(てくび): wrist 部首(ぶしゅ): radical of a kanji 首(くび): neck Kunyomi: くび Onyomi: シュ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 首 (くび)	neck 首 画数9 74 Details Story Dictionary 首 neck My Story During sex, you stick your *legs* over your *head* and neck Koohii #1 The V shape is your neck on top of your collar bone, or the straight line. Yourself, or the rest of your body is below that! Koohii #2 The mooses neck supports it´s big horns and long nose. Primitives neck, horns, nose, one, ceiling, drop, eye 首飾り(くびかざり): necklace 首輪(くびわ): necklace, choker 元首(げんしゅ): ruler, sovereign 自首(じしゅ): surrender, give oneself up 首脳(しゅのう): head, brains 首相(しゅしょう): Prime Minister, Chancellor (Germany, Austria, etc.) 首都(しゅと): capital city 手首(てくび): wrist 部首(ぶしゅ): radical of a kanji 首(くび): neck Kunyomi: くび Onyomi: シュ Lesson: 4 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 首 (くび)
"fish guts Details Story Dictionary 乙 fish guts Heisig's The kanji shown here actually represents the ""second"" position in the old Chinese zodiac, which the Japanese still use as an alternate way of enumeration, much the same way that English will revert to Roman numerals. Among its many other meanings are ""pure,"" ""tasteful,"" ""quaint,"" and - get this! - fish guts. Since it is a pictograph of a fishhook, it should not be hard to associate it with the key word. * We will keep fishhook as the primitive meaning. Its shape will rarely be quite the same as that of the kanji. When it appears at the bottom of another primitive, it is straightened out, almost as if the weight of the upper element had bent it out of shape. And when it appears to the right of another element, the short horizontal line that gets the shape started is omitted and it is stretched out and narrowed, all for reasons of space and aesthetics. Examples follow. Koohii #1 This is a fish hook, that pulls out the fishguts. Koohii #2 You cut a fish in a z shape on the belly to make it easier to open the fish and rip out its fish guts silly! Primitives fishguts, fishhook 乙(おつ): strange, quaint, stylish, chic, spicy, queer, witty, tasty, romantic, 2nd in rank, second sign of the Chinese calendar Kunyomi: おと-、きのと Onyomi: オツ、イツ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"fish guts 乙 画数1 75 Details Story Dictionary 乙 fish guts Heisig's The kanji shown here actually represents the ""second"" position in the old Chinese zodiac, which the Japanese still use as an alternate way of enumeration, much the same way that English will revert to Roman numerals. Among its many other meanings are ""pure,"" ""tasteful,"" ""quaint,"" and - get this! - fish guts. Since it is a pictograph of a fishhook, it should not be hard to associate it with the key word. * We will keep fishhook as the primitive meaning. Its shape will rarely be quite the same as that of the kanji. When it appears at the bottom of another primitive, it is straightened out, almost as if the weight of the upper element had bent it out of shape. And when it appears to the right of another element, the short horizontal line that gets the shape started is omitted and it is stretched out and narrowed, all for reasons of space and aesthetics. Examples follow. Koohii #1 This is a fish hook, that pulls out the fishguts. Koohii #2 You cut a fish in a z shape on the belly to make it easier to open the fish and rip out its fish guts silly! Primitives fishguts, fishhook 乙(おつ): strange, quaint, stylish, chic, spicy, queer, witty, tasty, romantic, 2nd in rank, second sign of the Chinese calendar Kunyomi: おと-、きのと Onyomi: オツ、イツ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"riot Details Story Dictionary 乱 riot Heisig's In a riot, manners are laid aside and tempers get short, even in so courtesy-conscious a land as Japan. This kanji shows what happens to a rioting tongue: it gets ""barbed"" like a fishhook, and sets to attacking the opposition, to hook them as it were. Koohii #1 The riot police broke up the riot by dragging the rioters away by their tongues with fishooks. Koohii #2 A tongue with a hook can cause a riot. Primitives riot, tongue, thousand, drop, ten, needle, mouth, fishhook 内乱(ないらん): civil war, insurrection, rebellion, domestic conflict 反乱(はんらん): insurrection, mutiny, rebellion, revolt, uprising 乱す(みだす): to throw out of order, to disarrange, to disturb 乱れる(みだれる): to get confused, to be disordered, to be disturbed 混乱(こんらん): disorder, chaos, confusion, mayhem 乱暴(らんぼう): rude, violent, rough, lawless, unreasonable, reckless Kunyomi: みだ.れる、みだ.る、みだ.す、みだ、おさ.める、わた.る Onyomi: ラン、ロン Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 乱す (みだ.す), 乱れる (みだ.れる)"	"riot 乱 画数7 76 Details Story Dictionary 乱 riot Heisig's In a riot, manners are laid aside and tempers get short, even in so courtesy-conscious a land as Japan. This kanji shows what happens to a rioting tongue: it gets ""barbed"" like a fishhook, and sets to attacking the opposition, to hook them as it were. Koohii #1 The riot police broke up the riot by dragging the rioters away by their tongues with fishooks. Koohii #2 A tongue with a hook can cause a riot. Primitives riot, tongue, thousand, drop, ten, needle, mouth, fishhook 内乱(ないらん): civil war, insurrection, rebellion, domestic conflict 反乱(はんらん): insurrection, mutiny, rebellion, revolt, uprising 乱す(みだす): to throw out of order, to disarrange, to disturb 乱れる(みだれる): to get confused, to be disordered, to be disturbed 混乱(こんらん): disorder, chaos, confusion, mayhem 乱暴(らんぼう): rude, violent, rough, lawless, unreasonable, reckless Kunyomi: みだ.れる、みだ.る、みだ.す、みだ、おさ.める、わた.る Onyomi: ラン、ロン Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 乱す (みだ.す), 乱れる (みだ.れる)"
straightaway / Fix Details Story Dictionary 直 straightaway / Fix My Story [Ten/Needle + Eye + Fish hook/L (take the L)] If you have *ten* *eyes* staring at you, #straightaway# take the *L* If you have a *needle* in your *eye*, you gotta take the *L*, nobody can #fix# that shit #straighaway# Koohii #1 If you get a needle in your eye that is hooked in there, get to a hospital straightaway. Koohii #2 I caught a freaky creature with ten eyes on my fish hook, so I threw it back straightaway. Primitives straightaway, ten, needle, eye, fishhook 直ぐ(すぐ): immediately, soon, easily, right (near), honest, upright 率直(そっちょく): frankness, candour, openheartedness 直面(ちょくめん): confrontation 直感(ちょっかん): intuition 出直し(でなおし): adjustment, touch up 直に(じかに): directly, in person, headlong 直(じき): direct, in person, soon, at once, just, near by, honesty, frankness, simplicity, cheerfulness, correctness 正直(しょうじき): honesty, integrity, frankness 垂直(すいちょく): vertical, perpendicular 素直(すなお): obedient, meek, docile, unaffected 卒直(そっちょく): frankness, candour, openheartedness 直ちに(ただちに): at once, immediately, directly, in person 直後(ちょくご): immediately following 直接(ちょくせつ): direct, immediate, personal, firsthand 直線(ちょくせん): straight line 直前(ちょくぜん): just before 直通(ちょくつう): direct communication 直流(ちょくりゅう): direct current 直角(ちょっかく): right angle 直径(ちょっけい): diameter 仲直り(なかなおり): reconciliation, make peace with 真っ直ぐ(まっすぐ): straight (ahead), direct, upright, erect, honest, frank 見直す(みなおす): look again, form a better opinion of 直す(なおす): repair 直る(なおる): be repaired Kunyomi: ただ.ちに、なお.す、-なお.す、なお.る、なお.き、す.ぐ Onyomi: チョク、ジキ、ジカ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 直立 (ちょくりつ), 直接 (ちょくせつ), 実直 (じっちょく), 直ちに (ただ.ちに), 直す (なお.す), 直る (なお.る)	straightaway / Fix 直 画数8 77 Details Story Dictionary 直 straightaway / Fix My Story [Ten/Needle + Eye + Fish hook/L (take the L)] If you have *ten* *eyes* staring at you, #straightaway# take the *L* If you have a *needle* in your *eye*, you gotta take the *L*, nobody can #fix# that shit #straighaway# Koohii #1 If you get a needle in your eye that is hooked in there, get to a hospital straightaway. Koohii #2 I caught a freaky creature with ten eyes on my fish hook, so I threw it back straightaway. Primitives straightaway, ten, needle, eye, fishhook 直ぐ(すぐ): immediately, soon, easily, right (near), honest, upright 率直(そっちょく): frankness, candour, openheartedness 直面(ちょくめん): confrontation 直感(ちょっかん): intuition 出直し(でなおし): adjustment, touch up 直に(じかに): directly, in person, headlong 直(じき): direct, in person, soon, at once, just, near by, honesty, frankness, simplicity, cheerfulness, correctness 正直(しょうじき): honesty, integrity, frankness 垂直(すいちょく): vertical, perpendicular 素直(すなお): obedient, meek, docile, unaffected 卒直(そっちょく): frankness, candour, openheartedness 直ちに(ただちに): at once, immediately, directly, in person 直後(ちょくご): immediately following 直接(ちょくせつ): direct, immediate, personal, firsthand 直線(ちょくせん): straight line 直前(ちょくぜん): just before 直通(ちょくつう): direct communication 直流(ちょくりゅう): direct current 直角(ちょっかく): right angle 直径(ちょっけい): diameter 仲直り(なかなおり): reconciliation, make peace with 真っ直ぐ(まっすぐ): straight (ahead), direct, upright, erect, honest, frank 見直す(みなおす): look again, form a better opinion of 直す(なおす): repair 直る(なおる): be repaired Kunyomi: ただ.ちに、なお.す、-なお.す、なお.る、なお.き、す.ぐ Onyomi: チョク、ジキ、ジカ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 直立 (ちょくりつ), 直接 (ちょくせつ), 実直 (じっちょく), 直ちに (ただ.ちに), 直す (なお.す), 直る (なお.る)
tool Details Story Dictionary 具 tool My Story [eye + pi/ tool (prim)] The *eye* was the tool that was used to discover *pi* *Eyes* are the *tool* which allows us to see. Koohii #1 Keep an eye on your tools while you work at the table. Koohii #2 One tool nobody should be without - a Mordor-type eye that floats over the workbench. It jerks around, monitoring all who come near, and if anyone so much as removes a stapler from the bench - ZAP. Primitives tool, eye, tool, one, animal legs, eight 雨具(あまぐ): rain gear 敬具(けいぐ): Sincerely yours 夜具(やぐ): bedding 絵の具(えのぐ): colors, paints 家具(かぐ): furniture 器具(きぐ): utensil 具体(ぐたい): concrete, tangible, material 具える(そなえる): furnish, provide for, equip, install, have ready, prepare for, possess, have, be endowed with, be armed with 文房具(ぶんぼうぐ): stationery 具合(ぐあい): condition 道具(どうぐ): tool Kunyomi: そな.える、つぶさ.に Onyomi: グ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	tool 具 画数8 78 Details Story Dictionary 具 tool My Story [eye + pi/ tool (prim)] The *eye* was the tool that was used to discover *pi* *Eyes* are the *tool* which allows us to see. Koohii #1 Keep an eye on your tools while you work at the table. Koohii #2 One tool nobody should be without - a Mordor-type eye that floats over the workbench. It jerks around, monitoring all who come near, and if anyone so much as removes a stapler from the bench - ZAP. Primitives tool, eye, tool, one, animal legs, eight 雨具(あまぐ): rain gear 敬具(けいぐ): Sincerely yours 夜具(やぐ): bedding 絵の具(えのぐ): colors, paints 家具(かぐ): furniture 器具(きぐ): utensil 具体(ぐたい): concrete, tangible, material 具える(そなえる): furnish, provide for, equip, install, have ready, prepare for, possess, have, be endowed with, be armed with 文房具(ぶんぼうぐ): stationery 具合(ぐあい): condition 道具(どうぐ): tool Kunyomi: そな.える、つぶさ.に Onyomi: グ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
true Details Story Dictionary 真 true My Story [Ten + eye + pi/tool (prim)] You know, it really is true that *ten* *eyes* discovered *pi* Koohii #1 A compass is a tool with a needle on top that points to true north. Koohii #2 Ten tools are all a true craftsman needs. Primitives true, ten, needle, eye, tool, one, animal legs, eight 生真面目(きまじめ): too serious, person who is too serious, honesty, sincerity 真実(さな): truth, reality 真珠(しんじゅ): pearl 真相(しんそう): truth, real situation 真理(しんり): truth 真上(まうえ): just above, right overhead 真心(まこころ): sincerity, devotion 真に(まことに): truly, actually, really 真下(ました): right under, directly below 真っ二つ(まっぷたつ): in two equal parts 真ん前(まんまえ): right in front, under the nose 真ん丸い(まんまるい): perfectly circular 真空(しんくう): vacuum, hollow, empty 真剣(しんけん): seriousness, earnestness 真面目(まじめ): diligent, serious, honest 真っ赤(まっか): deep red, flushed (of face) 真っ暗(まっくら): total darkness, pitch dark, shortsightedness 真っ黒(まっくろ): pitch black 真っ青(まっさお): deep blue, ghastly pale 真っ先(まっさき): the head, the foremost, beginning 真っ白(まっしろ): pure white 真っ直ぐ(まっすぐ): straight (ahead), direct, upright, erect, honest, frank 真似(まね): mimicry, imitation, behavior, pretense 真似る(まねる): mimic, imitate 真ん中(まんなか): middle, center, half way 写真(しゃしん): photograph Kunyomi: ま、ま-、まこと Onyomi: シン Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 真 (ま)	true 真 画数10 79 Details Story Dictionary 真 true My Story [Ten + eye + pi/tool (prim)] You know, it really is true that *ten* *eyes* discovered *pi* Koohii #1 A compass is a tool with a needle on top that points to true north. Koohii #2 Ten tools are all a true craftsman needs. Primitives true, ten, needle, eye, tool, one, animal legs, eight 生真面目(きまじめ): too serious, person who is too serious, honesty, sincerity 真実(さな): truth, reality 真珠(しんじゅ): pearl 真相(しんそう): truth, real situation 真理(しんり): truth 真上(まうえ): just above, right overhead 真心(まこころ): sincerity, devotion 真に(まことに): truly, actually, really 真下(ました): right under, directly below 真っ二つ(まっぷたつ): in two equal parts 真ん前(まんまえ): right in front, under the nose 真ん丸い(まんまるい): perfectly circular 真空(しんくう): vacuum, hollow, empty 真剣(しんけん): seriousness, earnestness 真面目(まじめ): diligent, serious, honest 真っ赤(まっか): deep red, flushed (of face) 真っ暗(まっくら): total darkness, pitch dark, shortsightedness 真っ黒(まっくろ): pitch black 真っ青(まっさお): deep blue, ghastly pale 真っ先(まっさき): the head, the foremost, beginning 真っ白(まっしろ): pure white 真っ直ぐ(まっすぐ): straight (ahead), direct, upright, erect, honest, frank 真似(まね): mimicry, imitation, behavior, pretense 真似る(まねる): mimic, imitate 真ん中(まんなか): middle, center, half way 写真(しゃしん): photograph Kunyomi: ま、ま-、まこと Onyomi: シン Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 真 (ま)
craft Details Story Dictionary 工 craft Heisig's The pictograph of an I beam, like the kind used in heavy construction work on buildings and bridges, gives us the character for craft in general. * As a primitive element, the key word retains the meaning of craft and also takes on the related meanings of I beam and artificial. Koohii #1 I consider craft to be one of the harder primitives to use in stories so I´ve personified it as Bender the crafty robot from Futurama who was designed to bend I-beams. Koohii #2 I crafty. Primitives craft, artificial 加工(かこう): manufacturing, processing, treatment 工学(こうがく): engineering 工作(こうさく): work, construction, handicraft, maneuvering 細工(さいく): work, craftsmanship, tactics, trick 着工(ちゃっこう): start of (construction) work 工夫(くふう): device, scheme 工員(こういん): factory worker 工芸(こうげい): industrial arts 工事(こうじ): construction work 工場(こうば): factory, plant, mill, workshop 人工(じんこう): artificial, man-made, human work, human skill, artificiality 大工(だいく): carpenter 工業(こうぎょう): industry 工場(こうじょう): factory Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ、ク、グ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 工場 (こうじょう), 加工 (かこう), 人工 (じんこう)	craft 工 画数3 80 Details Story Dictionary 工 craft Heisig's The pictograph of an I beam, like the kind used in heavy construction work on buildings and bridges, gives us the character for craft in general. * As a primitive element, the key word retains the meaning of craft and also takes on the related meanings of I beam and artificial. Koohii #1 I consider craft to be one of the harder primitives to use in stories so I´ve personified it as Bender the crafty robot from Futurama who was designed to bend I-beams. Koohii #2 I crafty. Primitives craft, artificial 加工(かこう): manufacturing, processing, treatment 工学(こうがく): engineering 工作(こうさく): work, construction, handicraft, maneuvering 細工(さいく): work, craftsmanship, tactics, trick 着工(ちゃっこう): start of (construction) work 工夫(くふう): device, scheme 工員(こういん): factory worker 工芸(こうげい): industrial arts 工事(こうじ): construction work 工場(こうば): factory, plant, mill, workshop 人工(じんこう): artificial, man-made, human work, human skill, artificiality 大工(だいく): carpenter 工業(こうぎょう): industry 工場(こうじょう): factory Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ、ク、グ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 工場 (こうじょう), 加工 (かこう), 人工 (じんこう)
"left Details Story Dictionary 左 left Heisig's By combining the primitive and the kanji of the last two frames and reading the results, we get: by one's side . . . craft. Conveniently, the left has traditionally been considered the ""sinister"" side, where dark and occult crafts are cultivated. Note how the second stroke droops over to the left and is longer than the first. Koohii #1 The LEFT side of my brain posesses the faculties needed for logical crafts, like engineering. Koohii #2 The left side of my brain, is for crafts. Primitives left, by one’s side, craft 左程(さほど): (not) very, (not) much 左様なら(さようなら): good-bye 左利き(ひだりきき): left-handedness, sake drinker, left-hander 左右(さゆう): left and right, influence, control, domination 左(ひだり): left hand side Kunyomi: ひだり Onyomi: サ、シャ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 左 (ひだり)"	"left 左 画数5 81 Details Story Dictionary 左 left Heisig's By combining the primitive and the kanji of the last two frames and reading the results, we get: by one's side . . . craft. Conveniently, the left has traditionally been considered the ""sinister"" side, where dark and occult crafts are cultivated. Note how the second stroke droops over to the left and is longer than the first. Koohii #1 The LEFT side of my brain posesses the faculties needed for logical crafts, like engineering. Koohii #2 The left side of my brain, is for crafts. Primitives left, by one’s side, craft 左程(さほど): (not) very, (not) much 左様なら(さようなら): good-bye 左利き(ひだりきき): left-handedness, sake drinker, left-hander 左右(さゆう): left and right, influence, control, domination 左(ひだり): left hand side Kunyomi: ひだり Onyomi: サ、シャ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 左 (ひだり)"
right Details Story Dictionary 右 right Heisig's When thinking of the key word right, in order to avoid confusion with the previous frame, take advantage of the double meaning here, too. Imagine a little mouth hanging down by your side - like a little voice of conscience - telling you the right thing to do. Here the second stroke should reach out to the right and be drawn slightly longer than the first. Koohii #1 The right hand is for putting food in your mouth. (The other hand is for ass-wiping!). Koohii #2 Always keep your right to free speech (mouth) by your side! Primitives right, by one’s side, mouth 左右(さゆう): left and right, influence, control, domination 右(みぎ): right hand side Kunyomi: みぎ Onyomi: ウ、ユウ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 右岸 (みぎぎし), 右折 (うせつ), 右派 (うは), 右 (みぎ)	right 右 画数5 82 Details Story Dictionary 右 right Heisig's When thinking of the key word right, in order to avoid confusion with the previous frame, take advantage of the double meaning here, too. Imagine a little mouth hanging down by your side - like a little voice of conscience - telling you the right thing to do. Here the second stroke should reach out to the right and be drawn slightly longer than the first. Koohii #1 The right hand is for putting food in your mouth. (The other hand is for ass-wiping!). Koohii #2 Always keep your right to free speech (mouth) by your side! Primitives right, by one’s side, mouth 左右(さゆう): left and right, influence, control, domination 右(みぎ): right hand side Kunyomi: みぎ Onyomi: ウ、ユウ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 右岸 (みぎぎし), 右折 (うせつ), 右派 (うは), 右 (みぎ)
possess Details Story Dictionary 有 possess My Story *Naruto* does not possess the *moon* 有名 = Famous Koohii #1 Possessed by the Earth´s gravity, the moon stays by its side. Koohii #2 By my side I POSSESS a moon of flesh, better known as your big ass! Primitives possess, by one’s side, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 有難う(ありがとう): Thank you 有様(ありさま): state, condition, circumstances, the way things are or should be, truth 有りのまま(ありのまま): the truth, fact, as it is, frankly 有る(ある): to be, to have 国有(こくゆう): national ownership 固有(こゆう): characteristic, tradition, peculiar, inherent, eigen- 私有(しゆう): private ownership 特有(とくゆう): characteristic (of), peculiar (to) 有益(ゆうえき): beneficial, profitable 有機(ゆうき): organic 有する(ゆうする): to own, to be endowed with 有望(ゆうぼう): good prospects, full of hope, promising 有力(ゆうりょく): influence, prominence, potent 有難い(ありがたい): grateful, thankful, welcome, appreciated 有無(うむ): yes or no, existence, presence or absence marker 有効(ゆうこう): validity, availability, effectiveness 有能(ゆうのう): able, capable, efficient, skill 有利(ゆうり): advantageous, better, profitable, lucrative 有料(ゆうりょう): admission-paid, toll 有名(ゆうめい): fame Kunyomi: あ.る Onyomi: ユウ、ウ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 有益 (ゆうえき), 所有 (しょゆう), 特有 (とくゆう), 有 (ある)	possess 有 画数6 83 Details Story Dictionary 有 possess My Story *Naruto* does not possess the *moon* 有名 = Famous Koohii #1 Possessed by the Earth´s gravity, the moon stays by its side. Koohii #2 By my side I POSSESS a moon of flesh, better known as your big ass! Primitives possess, by one’s side, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 有難う(ありがとう): Thank you 有様(ありさま): state, condition, circumstances, the way things are or should be, truth 有りのまま(ありのまま): the truth, fact, as it is, frankly 有る(ある): to be, to have 国有(こくゆう): national ownership 固有(こゆう): characteristic, tradition, peculiar, inherent, eigen- 私有(しゆう): private ownership 特有(とくゆう): characteristic (of), peculiar (to) 有益(ゆうえき): beneficial, profitable 有機(ゆうき): organic 有する(ゆうする): to own, to be endowed with 有望(ゆうぼう): good prospects, full of hope, promising 有力(ゆうりょく): influence, prominence, potent 有難い(ありがたい): grateful, thankful, welcome, appreciated 有無(うむ): yes or no, existence, presence or absence marker 有効(ゆうこう): validity, availability, effectiveness 有能(ゆうのう): able, capable, efficient, skill 有利(ゆうり): advantageous, better, profitable, lucrative 有料(ゆうりょう): admission-paid, toll 有名(ゆうめい): fame Kunyomi: あ.る Onyomi: ユウ、ウ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 有益 (ゆうえき), 所有 (しょゆう), 特有 (とくゆう), 有 (ある)
bribe Details Story Dictionary 賄 bribe Heisig's To the left we have the primitive for a shellfish, and to the right the kanji we just learned for possess. Keep the connotation of the last frame for the word possess, and now expand your image of shells to include the ancient value they had as money (a usage that will come in very helpful later on). Now one who is possessed by shells is likely to abandon any higher principles to acquire more and more wealth. These are the easiest ones to bribe with a few extra shells. Koohii #1 To bribe someone, money is a necessary possession. Koohii #2 If you possess enough shellfish, you can bribe anyone. Primitives bribe, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, possess, by one’s side, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 賄う(まかなう): to give board to, to provide meals, to pay Kunyomi: まかな.う Onyomi: ワイ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 賄う (まかな.う)	bribe 賄 画数13 84 Details Story Dictionary 賄 bribe Heisig's To the left we have the primitive for a shellfish, and to the right the kanji we just learned for possess. Keep the connotation of the last frame for the word possess, and now expand your image of shells to include the ancient value they had as money (a usage that will come in very helpful later on). Now one who is possessed by shells is likely to abandon any higher principles to acquire more and more wealth. These are the easiest ones to bribe with a few extra shells. Koohii #1 To bribe someone, money is a necessary possession. Koohii #2 If you possess enough shellfish, you can bribe anyone. Primitives bribe, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, possess, by one’s side, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 賄う(まかなう): to give board to, to provide meals, to pay Kunyomi: まかな.う Onyomi: ワイ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 賄う (まかな.う)
tribute Details Story Dictionary 貢 tribute Heisig's A tribute has a kind of double-meaning in English: honor paid freely and money collected by coercion. Simply because a ruler bestows a noble name on a deed is hardly any consolation to the masses who must part with their hard-earned money. Little wonder that this ancient craft of getting money by calling it a tribute has given way to a name closer to how it feels to those who pay it: a tax. Koohii #1 This next song is a TRIBUTE to a little SHELLFISH friend of mine who was tragically crushed by an I-shaped table.. Koohii #2 Tribute is the craft of raising money. Primitives tribute, craft, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 貢献(こうけん): contribution, services Kunyomi: みつ.ぐ Onyomi: コウ、ク Lesson: 5 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 貢献 (こうけん), 貢 (みつぐ)	tribute 貢 画数10 85 Details Story Dictionary 貢 tribute Heisig's A tribute has a kind of double-meaning in English: honor paid freely and money collected by coercion. Simply because a ruler bestows a noble name on a deed is hardly any consolation to the masses who must part with their hard-earned money. Little wonder that this ancient craft of getting money by calling it a tribute has given way to a name closer to how it feels to those who pay it: a tax. Koohii #1 This next song is a TRIBUTE to a little SHELLFISH friend of mine who was tragically crushed by an I-shaped table.. Koohii #2 Tribute is the craft of raising money. Primitives tribute, craft, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 貢献(こうけん): contribution, services Kunyomi: みつ.ぐ Onyomi: コウ、ク Lesson: 5 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 貢献 (こうけん), 貢 (みつぐ)
"paragraph Details Story Dictionary 項 paragraph Heisig's To the right we see a head and to the left an element that means craft. When we think of a paragraph, we immediately think of a heading device to break a text into parts. (Think of the elaborate heads often seen at the start of medieval manuscripts and the task becomes easier still.) Just where and how to do it belongs to the writer's craft. Hence, we define paragraphing as the ""heading craft"" to remember this character. Koohii #1 To write a paragraph is the craft of grouping sentences on a page. Koohii #2 To craft a page well, we need paragraphs. Primitives paragraph, craft, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 事項(じこう): matter, item, facts 項目(こうもく): item Kunyomi: うなじ Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"paragraph 項 画数12 86 Details Story Dictionary 項 paragraph Heisig's To the right we see a head and to the left an element that means craft. When we think of a paragraph, we immediately think of a heading device to break a text into parts. (Think of the elaborate heads often seen at the start of medieval manuscripts and the task becomes easier still.) Just where and how to do it belongs to the writer's craft. Hence, we define paragraphing as the ""heading craft"" to remember this character. Koohii #1 To write a paragraph is the craft of grouping sentences on a page. Koohii #2 To craft a page well, we need paragraphs. Primitives paragraph, craft, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 事項(じこう): matter, item, facts 項目(こうもく): item Kunyomi: うなじ Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
sword Details Story Dictionary 刀 sword Heisig's Although this character no longer looks very much like a sword, it does have some resemblance to the handle of the sword. This is to our advantage, in that it helps us keep make a distinction between two primitive elements based on this kanji. * In the form of the kanji, this primitive means a dagger. When it appears to the right of another element, it is commonly stretched out and takes the sense of a great and flashing saber, a meaning it gets from a character we shall learn later (Frame 1801). Koohii #1 This SWORD is so sharp, it can cut the top part of カ off in カタナ. Koohii #2 If you look really close this kanji looks like a person bending over touching the ground Waiting for someone to put there sword in his ass! Primitives sword, dagger 刀(かたな): sword, blade 剃刀(かみそり): razor Kunyomi: かたな、そり Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 刀 (かたな)	sword 刀 画数2 87 Details Story Dictionary 刀 sword Heisig's Although this character no longer looks very much like a sword, it does have some resemblance to the handle of the sword. This is to our advantage, in that it helps us keep make a distinction between two primitive elements based on this kanji. * In the form of the kanji, this primitive means a dagger. When it appears to the right of another element, it is commonly stretched out and takes the sense of a great and flashing saber, a meaning it gets from a character we shall learn later (Frame 1801). Koohii #1 This SWORD is so sharp, it can cut the top part of カ off in カタナ. Koohii #2 If you look really close this kanji looks like a person bending over touching the ground Waiting for someone to put there sword in his ass! Primitives sword, dagger 刀(かたな): sword, blade 剃刀(かみそり): razor Kunyomi: かたな、そり Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 刀 (かたな)
blade Details Story Dictionary 刃 blade My Story [A drop + sword {刀}] There's *a drop* of blood on the blade of the *sword*. Koohii #1 The part of a sword where a drop of blood can usually be found is the blade. Koohii #2 A drop of blood on the blade of my sword. Primitives blade, drop, sword, dagger 刃(は): edge (of a sword) Kunyomi: は、やいば、き.る Onyomi: ジン、ニン Lesson: 5 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 刃 (は)	blade 刃 画数3 88 Details Story Dictionary 刃 blade My Story [A drop + sword {刀}] There's *a drop* of blood on the blade of the *sword*. Koohii #1 The part of a sword where a drop of blood can usually be found is the blade. Koohii #2 A drop of blood on the blade of my sword. Primitives blade, drop, sword, dagger 刃(は): edge (of a sword) Kunyomi: は、やいば、き.る Onyomi: ジン、ニン Lesson: 5 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 刃 (は)
cut Details Story Dictionary 切 cut Heisig's To the right we see the dagger and next to it the number seven whose primitive meaning we decided would be diced (Frame 7). It is hard to think of cutting anything with a knife without imagining one of those skillful Japanese chefs. Only let us say that he has had too much to drink at a party, grabs a dagger lying on the mantelpiece and starts dicing up everything insight, starting with the hors d'oeuvres and going on to the furniture and the carpets.... Koohii #1 The seven samurai used their swords to cut their opponents. Koohii #2 Seven swords cut better than one. Primitives cut, seven, diced, sword, dagger 一切(いっさい): all, everything, without exception, the whole, entirely, absolutely 打ち切る(うちきる): to stop, to abort, to discontinue, to close 噛み切る(かみきる): to bite off, to gnaw through 切っ掛け(きっかけ): chance, start, cue, excuse, motive, impetus, occasion 切り(きり): limits, end, bounds, period, place to leave off, closing sentence, all there is, only, since 切り替える(きりかえる): to change, to exchange, to convert, to renew, to throw a switch, to replace, to switch over 切れ目(きれめ): break, pause, gap, end, rift, interruption, cut, section, notch, incision, end (of a task) 区切り(くぎり): an end, a stop, punctuation 小切手(こぎって): cheque, check 仕切る(しきる): to partition, to divide, to mark off, to settle accounts, to toe the mark 締め切り(しめきり): closing, cut-off, end, deadline, Closed, No Entrance 切開(せっかい): clearing (land), opening up, cutting through 切実(せつじつ): compelling, serious, severe, acute, earnest, pressing, urgent 切ない(せつない): painful, trying, oppressive, suffocating 痛切(つうせつ): keen, acute 出切る(できる): to be out of, to have no more at hand 跡切れる(とぎれる): to pause, to be interrupted 持ち切り(もちきり): hot topic, talk of the town 裏切る(うらぎる): betray, double-cross 売り切れ(うりきれ): sold out 売り切れる(うりきれる): be sold out 切れ(きれ): cloth, piece, cut, chop, strip, slice, scrap 切れる(きれる): be sharp (blade), break (off), snap, wear out, burst, collapse, be injured, be disconnected, be out of, expire, be shrewd, have a sharp mind 区切る(くぎる): punctuate, cut off, mark off, stop, put an end to 締切(しめきり): closing, cut-off, end, deadline, Closed, No Entrance 締め切る(しめきる): shut up 適切(てきせつ): pertinent, appropriate, adequate, relevance 張り切る(はりきる): be in high spirits, be full of vigor, be enthusiastic, be eager, stretch to breaking point 踏切(ふみきり): railway crossing, level crossing, starting line, scratch, crossover 横切る(よこぎる): cross (e.g. arms), traverse 親切(しんせつ): kind 切手(きって): stamp 切符(きっぷ): ticket 切る(きる): cut, chop, hash, carve, saw, clip, shear, slice, strip, cut down, punch, sever (connections), pause, break off, disconnect, turn off, hang up, cross (a street), finish, be through, complete 大切(たいせつ): important Kunyomi: き.る、-き.る、き.り、-き.り、-ぎ.り、き.れる、-き.れる、き.れ、-き.れ、-ぎ.れ Onyomi: セツ、サイ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 切断 (せつだん), 親切 (しんせつ), 切に (せつに), 切る (き.る), 切れる (き.れる)	cut 切 画数4 89 Details Story Dictionary 切 cut Heisig's To the right we see the dagger and next to it the number seven whose primitive meaning we decided would be diced (Frame 7). It is hard to think of cutting anything with a knife without imagining one of those skillful Japanese chefs. Only let us say that he has had too much to drink at a party, grabs a dagger lying on the mantelpiece and starts dicing up everything insight, starting with the hors d'oeuvres and going on to the furniture and the carpets.... Koohii #1 The seven samurai used their swords to cut their opponents. Koohii #2 Seven swords cut better than one. Primitives cut, seven, diced, sword, dagger 一切(いっさい): all, everything, without exception, the whole, entirely, absolutely 打ち切る(うちきる): to stop, to abort, to discontinue, to close 噛み切る(かみきる): to bite off, to gnaw through 切っ掛け(きっかけ): chance, start, cue, excuse, motive, impetus, occasion 切り(きり): limits, end, bounds, period, place to leave off, closing sentence, all there is, only, since 切り替える(きりかえる): to change, to exchange, to convert, to renew, to throw a switch, to replace, to switch over 切れ目(きれめ): break, pause, gap, end, rift, interruption, cut, section, notch, incision, end (of a task) 区切り(くぎり): an end, a stop, punctuation 小切手(こぎって): cheque, check 仕切る(しきる): to partition, to divide, to mark off, to settle accounts, to toe the mark 締め切り(しめきり): closing, cut-off, end, deadline, Closed, No Entrance 切開(せっかい): clearing (land), opening up, cutting through 切実(せつじつ): compelling, serious, severe, acute, earnest, pressing, urgent 切ない(せつない): painful, trying, oppressive, suffocating 痛切(つうせつ): keen, acute 出切る(できる): to be out of, to have no more at hand 跡切れる(とぎれる): to pause, to be interrupted 持ち切り(もちきり): hot topic, talk of the town 裏切る(うらぎる): betray, double-cross 売り切れ(うりきれ): sold out 売り切れる(うりきれる): be sold out 切れ(きれ): cloth, piece, cut, chop, strip, slice, scrap 切れる(きれる): be sharp (blade), break (off), snap, wear out, burst, collapse, be injured, be disconnected, be out of, expire, be shrewd, have a sharp mind 区切る(くぎる): punctuate, cut off, mark off, stop, put an end to 締切(しめきり): closing, cut-off, end, deadline, Closed, No Entrance 締め切る(しめきる): shut up 適切(てきせつ): pertinent, appropriate, adequate, relevance 張り切る(はりきる): be in high spirits, be full of vigor, be enthusiastic, be eager, stretch to breaking point 踏切(ふみきり): railway crossing, level crossing, starting line, scratch, crossover 横切る(よこぎる): cross (e.g. arms), traverse 親切(しんせつ): kind 切手(きって): stamp 切符(きっぷ): ticket 切る(きる): cut, chop, hash, carve, saw, clip, shear, slice, strip, cut down, punch, sever (connections), pause, break off, disconnect, turn off, hang up, cross (a street), finish, be through, complete 大切(たいせつ): important Kunyomi: き.る、-き.る、き.り、-き.り、-ぎ.り、き.れる、-き.れる、き.れ、-き.れ、-ぎ.れ Onyomi: セツ、サイ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 切断 (せつだん), 親切 (しんせつ), 切に (せつに), 切る (き.る), 切れる (き.れる)
"seduce Details Story Dictionary 召 seduce My Story [Sword + Mouth] You can seduce a man by playing with his ""*sword*"" or his *mouth* * The primitive meaning remains the same: seduce. Just be sure to associate it with a very concrete image. Koohii #1 A man is easily seduced by a mouth to his ""sword."". Koohii #2 To seduce is to make a sword of one´s mouth. Primitives seduce, sword, dagger, mouth 召す(めす): to call, to send for, to put on, to wear, to take (a bath), to ride in, to buy, to eat, to drink, to catch (a cold) 召し上がる(めしあがる): eat (polite) Kunyomi: め.す Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 召す (め.す)"	"seduce 召 画数5 90 Details Story Dictionary 召 seduce My Story [Sword + Mouth] You can seduce a man by playing with his ""*sword*"" or his *mouth* * The primitive meaning remains the same: seduce. Just be sure to associate it with a very concrete image. Koohii #1 A man is easily seduced by a mouth to his ""sword."". Koohii #2 To seduce is to make a sword of one´s mouth. Primitives seduce, sword, dagger, mouth 召す(めす): to call, to send for, to put on, to wear, to take (a bath), to ride in, to buy, to eat, to drink, to catch (a cold) 召し上がる(めしあがる): eat (polite) Kunyomi: め.す Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 召す (め.す)"
"shining Details Story Dictionary 昭 shining My Story [Sun/day + seduce {召}] In ""The Shining"", Jack Nicholson is *seduced* after *sun*(down). Koohii #1 Shining is the sun´s seduction. Koohii #2 The sun was shining so bright that it seduced Icarus and he flew too close. Primitives shining, sun, day, seduce, summon, sword, dagger, mouth Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"shining 昭 画数9 91 Details Story Dictionary 昭 shining My Story [Sun/day + seduce {召}] In ""The Shining"", Jack Nicholson is *seduced* after *sun*(down). Koohii #1 Shining is the sun´s seduction. Koohii #2 The sun was shining so bright that it seduced Icarus and he flew too close. Primitives shining, sun, day, seduce, summon, sword, dagger, mouth Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
rule Details Story Dictionary 則 rule My Story [Shellfish/money + realistic sword] Fuck the rules, I have *money* and a (*realistic*) sword. Koohii #1 When you have both money and the power of the sword, you can make the rules. Koohii #2 If you´ve got CRABs on your SABER, then you didn´t follow the rules of safe sex! Primitives rule, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, sword, sabre, saber 原則(げんそく): principle, general rule 不規則(ふきそく): irregularity, unsteadiness, disorderly 法則(ほうそく): law, rule 規則(きそく): regulations Kunyomi: のっと.る Onyomi: ソク Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	rule 則 画数9 92 Details Story Dictionary 則 rule My Story [Shellfish/money + realistic sword] Fuck the rules, I have *money* and a (*realistic*) sword. Koohii #1 When you have both money and the power of the sword, you can make the rules. Koohii #2 If you´ve got CRABs on your SABER, then you didn´t follow the rules of safe sex! Primitives rule, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, sword, sabre, saber 原則(げんそく): principle, general rule 不規則(ふきそく): irregularity, unsteadiness, disorderly 法則(ほうそく): law, rule 規則(きそく): regulations Kunyomi: のっと.る Onyomi: ソク Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
vice- Details Story Dictionary 副 vice- Heisig's The key word vice has the sense of someone second-in-command. The great and flashing saber to the right (its usual location, so you need not worry about where to put it from now on) and the wealth on the left combine to create an image of dividing one's property to give a share to one's vice-wealth holder. Koohii #1 The wealthy guy with the sword standing next to the king, that´s the vice-roy who does all the dirty work. Koohii #2 Vice-president Cheney: a wealthy saber rattler. Primitives vice-, wealth, one, ceiling, mouth, rice field, brains, sword, sabre, saber 副詞(ふくし): adverb Kunyomi: Onyomi: フク Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	vice- 副 画数11 93 Details Story Dictionary 副 vice- Heisig's The key word vice has the sense of someone second-in-command. The great and flashing saber to the right (its usual location, so you need not worry about where to put it from now on) and the wealth on the left combine to create an image of dividing one's property to give a share to one's vice-wealth holder. Koohii #1 The wealthy guy with the sword standing next to the king, that´s the vice-roy who does all the dirty work. Koohii #2 Vice-president Cheney: a wealthy saber rattler. Primitives vice-, wealth, one, ceiling, mouth, rice field, brains, sword, sabre, saber 副詞(ふくし): adverb Kunyomi: Onyomi: フク Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
separate Details Story Dictionary 別 separate Heisig's In the Old East, the samurai and his saber were never separated. They were constant companions, like the cowboy of the Old West and his six-shooter. This character depicts what must have been the height of separation-anxiety for a samurai: to be bound up with a rope and unable to get at his saber leaning only a few feet away from him. Look at that mouth bellowing out for shame and sorrow! Note the order in which the element for tied up is written - just as it had been with the character for ten thousand. Koohii #1 I don´t know about you but to me this seems like someone´s head is about to be separated from his body. You can see he´s kneeling and his mouth is wide open gasping for the last breath he will ever take. Koohii #2 A wise old samurai keeps his hostages (with their mouths bound up to keep them quiet) in a separate room from his sabers. Putting them together would be a silly mistake. Primitives separate, mouth, bound up, sword, sabre, saber 一別(いちべつ): parting 個別(こべつ): particular case 別(べつ): distinction, difference, different, another, particular, separate, extra, exception 格別(かくべつ): exceptional 区別(くべつ): distinction, differentiation, classification 差別(さべつ): discrimination, distinction, differentiation 性別(せいべつ): distinction by sex, sex, gender 送別(そうべつ): farewell, send-off 別荘(べっそう): holiday house, villa 別に(べつに): (not) particularly. nothing 別々(べつべつ): separately, individually 別れ(わかれ): parting, separation, farewell, (lateral) branch, fork, offshoot, division, section 特別(とくべつ): special 別れる(わかれる): separate Kunyomi: わか.れる、わ.ける Onyomi: ベツ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 別れる (わか.れる)	separate 別 画数7 94 Details Story Dictionary 別 separate Heisig's In the Old East, the samurai and his saber were never separated. They were constant companions, like the cowboy of the Old West and his six-shooter. This character depicts what must have been the height of separation-anxiety for a samurai: to be bound up with a rope and unable to get at his saber leaning only a few feet away from him. Look at that mouth bellowing out for shame and sorrow! Note the order in which the element for tied up is written - just as it had been with the character for ten thousand. Koohii #1 I don´t know about you but to me this seems like someone´s head is about to be separated from his body. You can see he´s kneeling and his mouth is wide open gasping for the last breath he will ever take. Koohii #2 A wise old samurai keeps his hostages (with their mouths bound up to keep them quiet) in a separate room from his sabers. Putting them together would be a silly mistake. Primitives separate, mouth, bound up, sword, sabre, saber 一別(いちべつ): parting 個別(こべつ): particular case 別(べつ): distinction, difference, different, another, particular, separate, extra, exception 格別(かくべつ): exceptional 区別(くべつ): distinction, differentiation, classification 差別(さべつ): discrimination, distinction, differentiation 性別(せいべつ): distinction by sex, sex, gender 送別(そうべつ): farewell, send-off 別荘(べっそう): holiday house, villa 別に(べつに): (not) particularly. nothing 別々(べつべつ): separately, individually 別れ(わかれ): parting, separation, farewell, (lateral) branch, fork, offshoot, division, section 特別(とくべつ): special 別れる(わかれる): separate Kunyomi: わか.れる、わ.ける Onyomi: ベツ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 別れる (わか.れる)
"street Details Story Dictionary 丁 street Heisig's The picture here is of a street sign on a long pole: Hollywood and Vine, if you please, or any street that immediately conjure sup the image of a street sign to you. * Used as a primitive, we change the meaning of the key word and take the shape to signify a nail or a spike. Should it happen, on reviewing, that you find the pictographs get jumbled, then think of jerking a street sign out of the ground and using it as a nail to repair your garage roof. Koohii #1 Today, the program ""Sesame Street"" is brought to you by the letter ""T"". Koohii #2 Two streets make a T-intersection. Primitives street, street, nail, spike 丁目(ちょうめ): district of a town, city block (of irregular size) 丁々(とうとう): clashing of swords, felling of trees, ringing of an ax 庖丁(ほうちょう): kitchen knife, carving knife 丁寧(ていねい): polite, courteous Kunyomi: ひのと Onyomi: チョウ、テイ、チン、トウ、チ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 丁数 (ちょうかず), 落丁 (らくちょう), 二丁目 (にちょうめ)"	"street 丁 画数2 95 Details Story Dictionary 丁 street Heisig's The picture here is of a street sign on a long pole: Hollywood and Vine, if you please, or any street that immediately conjure sup the image of a street sign to you. * Used as a primitive, we change the meaning of the key word and take the shape to signify a nail or a spike. Should it happen, on reviewing, that you find the pictographs get jumbled, then think of jerking a street sign out of the ground and using it as a nail to repair your garage roof. Koohii #1 Today, the program ""Sesame Street"" is brought to you by the letter ""T"". Koohii #2 Two streets make a T-intersection. Primitives street, street, nail, spike 丁目(ちょうめ): district of a town, city block (of irregular size) 丁々(とうとう): clashing of swords, felling of trees, ringing of an ax 庖丁(ほうちょう): kitchen knife, carving knife 丁寧(ていねい): polite, courteous Kunyomi: ひのと Onyomi: チョウ、テイ、チン、トウ、チ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 丁数 (ちょうかず), 落丁 (らくちょう), 二丁目 (にちょうめ)"
"village Details Story Dictionary 町 village Heisig's Street signs standing at the corner of the rice fields depict the village limits. (Remember what was said earlier: when used as a primitive, a kanji may either take its primitive meaning or revert to the original meaning of its key word.) Koohii #1 Actually this means town, like one that has lots of streets and is surrounded by all the rice fields. Koohii #2 Getting this one confused with Town is easy, so remember it with this rhyme. ""Pillage the village, for the rice and and the tea."" the street primitive on the right looks like a ´t´. Primitives village, rice field, brains, street, nail, spike 下町(したまち): Shitamachi, lower parts of town 町(まち): town, street, road Kunyomi: まち Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 町 (まち)"	"village 町 画数7 96 Details Story Dictionary 町 village Heisig's Street signs standing at the corner of the rice fields depict the village limits. (Remember what was said earlier: when used as a primitive, a kanji may either take its primitive meaning or revert to the original meaning of its key word.) Koohii #1 Actually this means town, like one that has lots of streets and is surrounded by all the rice fields. Koohii #2 Getting this one confused with Town is easy, so remember it with this rhyme. ""Pillage the village, for the rice and and the tea."" the street primitive on the right looks like a ´t´. Primitives village, rice field, brains, street, nail, spike 下町(したまち): Shitamachi, lower parts of town 町(まち): town, street, road Kunyomi: まち Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 町 (まち)"
"can Details Story Dictionary 可 can My Story (It can kinda) Looks like a buttler dog Koohii #1 A mouth on the street asking for things: ""Can I get some help?! Can I get directions, Can I have some money? Can you please speak English?!"". Koohii #2 I can eat nails. Primitives can, mouth, street, street, nail, spike 可笑しい(おかしい): strange, funny, amusing, ridiculous 可成(かなり): considerably, fairly, quite 可愛い(かわいい): pretty, cute, lovely, charming, dear, darling, pet 可愛がる(かわいがる): to love, to be affectionate 可哀想(かわいそう): poor, pitiable, pathetic 可愛らしい(かわいらしい): lovely, sweet 不可欠(ふかけつ): indispensable, essential 可(か): passable 可決(かけつ): approval, adoption (e.g. motion, bill), passage 可能(かのう): possible, practicable, feasible 許可(きょか): permission, approval 不可(ふか): wrong, bad, improper, unjustifiable, inadvisable Kunyomi: -べ.き Onyomi: カ、コク Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"can 可 画数5 97 Details Story Dictionary 可 can My Story (It can kinda) Looks like a buttler dog Koohii #1 A mouth on the street asking for things: ""Can I get some help?! Can I get directions, Can I have some money? Can you please speak English?!"". Koohii #2 I can eat nails. Primitives can, mouth, street, street, nail, spike 可笑しい(おかしい): strange, funny, amusing, ridiculous 可成(かなり): considerably, fairly, quite 可愛い(かわいい): pretty, cute, lovely, charming, dear, darling, pet 可愛がる(かわいがる): to love, to be affectionate 可哀想(かわいそう): poor, pitiable, pathetic 可愛らしい(かわいらしい): lovely, sweet 不可欠(ふかけつ): indispensable, essential 可(か): passable 可決(かけつ): approval, adoption (e.g. motion, bill), passage 可能(かのう): possible, practicable, feasible 許可(きょか): permission, approval 不可(ふか): wrong, bad, improper, unjustifiable, inadvisable Kunyomi: -べ.き Onyomi: カ、コク Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: Compounds:"
place on the head Details Story Dictionary 頂 place on the head My Story [Nail + head] A lobotomy involves *a nail* being #placed on the *head*# Koohii #1 If I put a street sign on my head what do I get ? A place on the head ! Koohii #2 NAILS - place directly on the forehead, NAILS - place directly on the forehead, NAILS - place directly on the forehead, 　　　The HEAD ON commercial nails it into your head...... Primitives place on the head, street, nail, spike, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 頂(いただき): (top of) head, summit, spire 頂く(いただく): receive, take food or drink 頂上(ちょうじょう): top, summit, peak 頂点(ちょうてん): top, summit Kunyomi: いただ.く、いただき Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 頂く (いただ.く), 頂 (いただき)	place on the head 頂 画数11 98 Details Story Dictionary 頂 place on the head My Story [Nail + head] A lobotomy involves *a nail* being #placed on the *head*# Koohii #1 If I put a street sign on my head what do I get ? A place on the head ! Koohii #2 NAILS - place directly on the forehead, NAILS - place directly on the forehead, NAILS - place directly on the forehead, 　　　The HEAD ON commercial nails it into your head...... Primitives place on the head, street, nail, spike, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 頂(いただき): (top of) head, summit, spire 頂く(いただく): receive, take food or drink 頂上(ちょうじょう): top, summit, peak 頂点(ちょうてん): top, summit Kunyomi: いただ.く、いただき Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 5 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 頂く (いただ.く), 頂 (いただき)
child Details Story Dictionary 子 child Heisig's This kanji is a pictograph of a child wrapped up in one of those handy cocoons that Japanese mothers fix to their backs to carry around young children who cannot get around by themselves. The first stroke is like a wee head popping out for air; the second shows the body and legs all wrapped up; and the final stroke shows the arms sticking out to cling to the mother's neck. * As a primitive, the meaning of child is retained, though you might imagine a little older child, able to run around and get into more mischief. Koohii #1 A child who is ten will still ask for his ma (top looks a bit like katakana ma). Koohii #2 A pictograph of a child, with arms outstretched for mother (or perhaps because she is chasing a rat?). Note that this kanji occupies the first space on the Zodiac circle, and is the sign for the rat (such as 2008!). Primitives child 女子(おなご): woman, girl 原子(げんし): atom 子息(しそく): son 扇子(せんす): folding fan 梯子(ていし): ladder, stairs 捻子(ねじ): screw, helix, spiral 分子(ぶんし): numerator, molecule 利子(りし): interest (bank) 椅子(いす): chair 王子(おうじ): prince 菓子(かし): pastry 子孫(しそん): descendants, posterity, offspring 障子(しょうじ): paper sliding door 女子(じょし): woman, girl 末っ子(すえっこ): youngest child 男子(だんし): youth, young man 調子(ちょうし): tune, tone, key, pitch, time, rhythm, vein, mood, way, manner, style, knack, condition, state of health, strain, impetus, spur of the moment, trend 電子(でんし): electron, (as a prefix) electronic, electronics 梯子(はしご): ladder, stairs 判子(はんこ): seal (used for signature) 双子(ふたご): twins, a twin 迷子(まいご): lost (stray) child 様子(ようす): aspect, state, appearance 子(こ): child 息子(むすこ): son お菓子(おかし): confections, sweets, candy 男の子(おとこのこ): boy 女の子(おんなのこ): girl 子供(こども): child, children 帽子(ぼうし): hat Kunyomi: こ、-こ、ね Onyomi: シ、ス、ツ Lesson: 6 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 子孫 (しそん), 女子 (じょし), 帽子 (ぼうし), 子 (こ)	child 子 画数3 99 Details Story Dictionary 子 child Heisig's This kanji is a pictograph of a child wrapped up in one of those handy cocoons that Japanese mothers fix to their backs to carry around young children who cannot get around by themselves. The first stroke is like a wee head popping out for air; the second shows the body and legs all wrapped up; and the final stroke shows the arms sticking out to cling to the mother's neck. * As a primitive, the meaning of child is retained, though you might imagine a little older child, able to run around and get into more mischief. Koohii #1 A child who is ten will still ask for his ma (top looks a bit like katakana ma). Koohii #2 A pictograph of a child, with arms outstretched for mother (or perhaps because she is chasing a rat?). Note that this kanji occupies the first space on the Zodiac circle, and is the sign for the rat (such as 2008!). Primitives child 女子(おなご): woman, girl 原子(げんし): atom 子息(しそく): son 扇子(せんす): folding fan 梯子(ていし): ladder, stairs 捻子(ねじ): screw, helix, spiral 分子(ぶんし): numerator, molecule 利子(りし): interest (bank) 椅子(いす): chair 王子(おうじ): prince 菓子(かし): pastry 子孫(しそん): descendants, posterity, offspring 障子(しょうじ): paper sliding door 女子(じょし): woman, girl 末っ子(すえっこ): youngest child 男子(だんし): youth, young man 調子(ちょうし): tune, tone, key, pitch, time, rhythm, vein, mood, way, manner, style, knack, condition, state of health, strain, impetus, spur of the moment, trend 電子(でんし): electron, (as a prefix) electronic, electronics 梯子(はしご): ladder, stairs 判子(はんこ): seal (used for signature) 双子(ふたご): twins, a twin 迷子(まいご): lost (stray) child 様子(ようす): aspect, state, appearance 子(こ): child 息子(むすこ): son お菓子(おかし): confections, sweets, candy 男の子(おとこのこ): boy 女の子(おんなのこ): girl 子供(こども): child, children 帽子(ぼうし): hat Kunyomi: こ、-こ、ね Onyomi: シ、ス、ツ Lesson: 6 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 子孫 (しそん), 女子 (じょし), 帽子 (ぼうし), 子 (こ)
"cavity Details Story Dictionary 孔 cavity Heisig's Probably the one thing most children fear more than anything else is the dentist's chair. Once a child has seen a dentist holding the x-rays up to the light and heard that ominous word cavity, even though it is not likely to know that the word means ""hole"" until it is much older, it will not be long before those two syllables get associated with the drill and that row of shiny hooks the dentist uses to torture people who are too small to fight back. Koohii #1 The child´s arms flailed around at the sight of the hooked tool the dentist was going to use to fill his cavity. Koohii #2 I warned him about cavities, but the child is still hooked on sweets. Primitives cavity, child, fishhook Kunyomi: あな Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 6 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"cavity 孔 画数4 100 Details Story Dictionary 孔 cavity Heisig's Probably the one thing most children fear more than anything else is the dentist's chair. Once a child has seen a dentist holding the x-rays up to the light and heard that ominous word cavity, even though it is not likely to know that the word means ""hole"" until it is much older, it will not be long before those two syllables get associated with the drill and that row of shiny hooks the dentist uses to torture people who are too small to fight back. Koohii #1 The child´s arms flailed around at the sight of the hooked tool the dentist was going to use to fill his cavity. Koohii #2 I warned him about cavities, but the child is still hooked on sweets. Primitives cavity, child, fishhook Kunyomi: あな Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 6 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"complete Details Story Dictionary 了 complete Heisig's Learn this character by returning to frame 99 and the image given there. The only difference is that the ""arms"" have been left off (actually, only tucked inside). Thus a child with its arms wrapped up into the back-sack is the picture of a job successfully completed. Koohii #1 The experiment was a complete failure! The child was made without any arms! Koohii #2 A child with the arms inside the blanket will be completely wrapped up. Primitives complete, child with arms wrapped up 修了(しゅうりょう): completion (of a course) 了(りょう): finish, completion, understanding 了解(りょうかい): comprehension, consent, understanding, roger (on the radio) 了承(りょうしょう): acknowledgement, understanding (e.g. ""please be understanding of the mess during our renovation"") 完了(かんりょう): completion, conclusion 終了(しゅうりょう): end, close, termination Kunyomi: Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 6 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"complete 了 画数2 101 Details Story Dictionary 了 complete Heisig's Learn this character by returning to frame 99 and the image given there. The only difference is that the ""arms"" have been left off (actually, only tucked inside). Thus a child with its arms wrapped up into the back-sack is the picture of a job successfully completed. Koohii #1 The experiment was a complete failure! The child was made without any arms! Koohii #2 A child with the arms inside the blanket will be completely wrapped up. Primitives complete, child with arms wrapped up 修了(しゅうりょう): completion (of a course) 了(りょう): finish, completion, understanding 了解(りょうかい): comprehension, consent, understanding, roger (on the radio) 了承(りょうしょう): acknowledgement, understanding (e.g. ""please be understanding of the mess during our renovation"") 完了(かんりょう): completion, conclusion 終了(しゅうりょう): end, close, termination Kunyomi: Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 6 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
"woman Details Story Dictionary 女 woman Heisig's You have probably seen somewhere the form of a squatting woman drawn behind this character, with two legs at the bottom, two arms (the horizontal line) and the head poking out the top. A little farfetched, until you draw the character and feel the grace and flow of the three simple strokes. Remembering the kanji is easy; being able to write it beautifully is another thing. * The primitive meaning is the same: woman. Koohii #1 To remember the order of strokes, remember a female ninja is called a ""kunoichi"". That is, く(hiragana) ノ(katakana) 一(kanji, ichi=one). Koohii #2 My mother taught me that a woman should always sit with her legs crossed (but the arms can be stretched out). Primitives woman 貴女(あなた): you, lady 少女(おとめ): daughter, young lady, virgin, maiden, little girl 女子(おなご): woman, girl 女史(じょし): Ms. 王女(おうじょ): princess 女の人(おんなのひと): woman 少女(しょうじょ): daughter, young lady, virgin, maiden, little girl 女王(じょおう): queen 女子(じょし): woman, girl 女優(じょゆう): actress 長女(ちょうじょ): eldest daughter 女房(にょうぼう): wife 彼女(かのじょ): she 女性(じょせい): woman 女(おんな): woman, girl, daughter 女の子(おんなのこ): girl Kunyomi: おんな、め Onyomi: ジョ、ニョ、ニョウ Lesson: 6 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 女子 (じょし), 女流 (じょりゅう), 少女 (しょうじょ), 女人 (にょにん), 天女 (てんにょ), 善男善女 (ぜんなんぜんにょ), 女 (おんな), 女 (め)"	"woman 女 画数3 102 Details Story Dictionary 女 woman Heisig's You have probably seen somewhere the form of a squatting woman drawn behind this character, with two legs at the bottom, two arms (the horizontal line) and the head poking out the top. A little farfetched, until you draw the character and feel the grace and flow of the three simple strokes. Remembering the kanji is easy; being able to write it beautifully is another thing. * The primitive meaning is the same: woman. Koohii #1 To remember the order of strokes, remember a female ninja is called a ""kunoichi"". That is, く(hiragana) ノ(katakana) 一(kanji, ichi=one). Koohii #2 My mother taught me that a woman should always sit with her legs crossed (but the arms can be stretched out). Primitives woman 貴女(あなた): you, lady 少女(おとめ): daughter, young lady, virgin, maiden, little girl 女子(おなご): woman, girl 女史(じょし): Ms. 王女(おうじょ): princess 女の人(おんなのひと): woman 少女(しょうじょ): daughter, young lady, virgin, maiden, little girl 女王(じょおう): queen 女子(じょし): woman, girl 女優(じょゆう): actress 長女(ちょうじょ): eldest daughter 女房(にょうぼう): wife 彼女(かのじょ): she 女性(じょせい): woman 女(おんな): woman, girl, daughter 女の子(おんなのこ): girl Kunyomi: おんな、め Onyomi: ジョ、ニョ、ニョウ Lesson: 6 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 女子 (じょし), 女流 (じょりゅう), 少女 (しょうじょ), 女人 (にょにん), 天女 (てんにょ), 善男善女 (ぜんなんぜんにょ), 女 (おんな), 女 (め)"
"fond Details Story Dictionary 好 fond Heisig's The phrase ""to be fond of someone"" has a natural gentleness about it, and lends a tenderness to the sense of touching by giving us the related term ""to fondle."" The character likens it to a woman fondling her child. Koohii #1 A woman is fond of her child. Koohii #2 Jane Fonda carrying a Vietnamese child. Pro-war protesters hold signs, ""I´m not fonda Jane!""...　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　コウ　好評　こうひょう(favorable criticism). Primitives fond, woman, child 格好(かっこう): shape, form, appearance, manner 好意(こうい): good will, favor, courtesy 好況(こうきょう): prosperous conditions, healthy economy 好調(こうちょう): favourable, promising, satisfactory, in good shape 好評(こうひょう): popularity, favorable reputation 好ましい(このましい): nice, likeable, desirable 嗜好(しこう): taste, liking, preference 物好き(ものずき): curiosity 好い(よい): good 良好(りょうこう): favorable, satisfactory 好み(このみ): liking, taste, choice 好む(このむ): like, prefer 好き嫌い(すききらい): likes and dislikes, taste 好き好き(すきずき): matter of taste 友好(ゆうこう): friendship 好き(すき): liking, fondness, love 大好き(だいすき): very likeable, like very much Kunyomi: この.む、す.く、よ.い、い.い Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 6 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 好む (この.む), 好く (す.く)"	"fond 好 画数6 103 Details Story Dictionary 好 fond Heisig's The phrase ""to be fond of someone"" has a natural gentleness about it, and lends a tenderness to the sense of touching by giving us the related term ""to fondle."" The character likens it to a woman fondling her child. Koohii #1 A woman is fond of her child. Koohii #2 Jane Fonda carrying a Vietnamese child. Pro-war protesters hold signs, ""I´m not fonda Jane!""...　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　コウ　好評　こうひょう(favorable criticism). Primitives fond, woman, child 格好(かっこう): shape, form, appearance, manner 好意(こうい): good will, favor, courtesy 好況(こうきょう): prosperous conditions, healthy economy 好調(こうちょう): favourable, promising, satisfactory, in good shape 好評(こうひょう): popularity, favorable reputation 好ましい(このましい): nice, likeable, desirable 嗜好(しこう): taste, liking, preference 物好き(ものずき): curiosity 好い(よい): good 良好(りょうこう): favorable, satisfactory 好み(このみ): liking, taste, choice 好む(このむ): like, prefer 好き嫌い(すききらい): likes and dislikes, taste 好き好き(すきずき): matter of taste 友好(ゆうこう): friendship 好き(すき): liking, fondness, love 大好き(だいすき): very likeable, like very much Kunyomi: この.む、す.く、よ.い、い.い Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 6 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 好む (この.む), 好く (す.く)"
"likeness Details Story Dictionary 如 likeness My Story The ""Like-ness"" Monster has a *woman's* *mouth*! Koohii #1 Women share a common likeness. Their mouths are always open, whining about this and that. Koohii #2 From a woman´s other 口comes a baby with a perfect likeness. Primitives likeness, woman, mouth 如何(いかが): how, in what way 如何に(いかに): how?, in what way?, how much?, however, whatever 如何にも(いかにも): indeed, really, phrase meaning agreement 如何しても(どうしても): by all means, at any cost, no matter what, after all, in the long run, cravingly, at any rate, surely 突如(とつじょ): suddenly, all of a sudden Kunyomi: ごと.し Onyomi: ジョ、ニョ Lesson: 6 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 欠如 (けつじょ), 突如 (とつじょ), 躍如 (やくじょ)"	"likeness 如 画数6 104 Details Story Dictionary 如 likeness My Story The ""Like-ness"" Monster has a *woman's* *mouth*! Koohii #1 Women share a common likeness. Their mouths are always open, whining about this and that. Koohii #2 From a woman´s other 口comes a baby with a perfect likeness. Primitives likeness, woman, mouth 如何(いかが): how, in what way 如何に(いかに): how?, in what way?, how much?, however, whatever 如何にも(いかにも): indeed, really, phrase meaning agreement 如何しても(どうしても): by all means, at any cost, no matter what, after all, in the long run, cravingly, at any rate, surely 突如(とつじょ): suddenly, all of a sudden Kunyomi: ごと.し Onyomi: ジョ、ニョ Lesson: 6 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 欠如 (けつじょ), 突如 (とつじょ), 躍如 (やくじょ)"
mama Details Story Dictionary 母 mama Heisig's Look closely at this kanji and you will find the outline of the kanji for woman in it, the second stroke of which has been expanded to make space for the two breasts that make her a mama. Likening this sound to a baby nursing at its mother's breast has afforded some scholars of comparative linguistics a way to explain the presence of the same word across a wide range of language groups. * As a primitive we shall add the meaning of breasts in accord with the explanation given above. Take careful note of the fact that the form is altered slightly when this kanji serves as a primitive, the final two dots joining together to form a longer stroke. An example follows in the next frame. Koohii #1 The two breasts of a momma who breastfeeds. Koohii #2 This mama had twins, one mouth for each nipple. Primitives mama, mother, breasts お祖母さん(おばあさん): grandmother, female senior-citizen 伯母さん(おばさん): aunt 父母(ちちはは): father and mother, parents 分母(ぶんぼ): denominator 母校(ぼこう): alma mater 保母(ほぼ): day care worker in a kindergarten nursery school etc. 母親(ははおや): mother 父母(ふぼ): father and mother, parents 祖母(そぼ): grand mother お母さん(おかあさん): (polite) mother Kunyomi: はは、も Onyomi: ボ Lesson: 6 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 母 (はは)	mama 母 画数5 105 Details Story Dictionary 母 mama Heisig's Look closely at this kanji and you will find the outline of the kanji for woman in it, the second stroke of which has been expanded to make space for the two breasts that make her a mama. Likening this sound to a baby nursing at its mother's breast has afforded some scholars of comparative linguistics a way to explain the presence of the same word across a wide range of language groups. * As a primitive we shall add the meaning of breasts in accord with the explanation given above. Take careful note of the fact that the form is altered slightly when this kanji serves as a primitive, the final two dots joining together to form a longer stroke. An example follows in the next frame. Koohii #1 The two breasts of a momma who breastfeeds. Koohii #2 This mama had twins, one mouth for each nipple. Primitives mama, mother, breasts お祖母さん(おばあさん): grandmother, female senior-citizen 伯母さん(おばさん): aunt 父母(ちちはは): father and mother, parents 分母(ぶんぼ): denominator 母校(ぼこう): alma mater 保母(ほぼ): day care worker in a kindergarten nursery school etc. 母親(ははおや): mother 父母(ふぼ): father and mother, parents 祖母(そぼ): grand mother お母さん(おかあさん): (polite) mother Kunyomi: はは、も Onyomi: ボ Lesson: 6 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 母 (はは)
pierce Details Story Dictionary 貫 pierce My Story [Mom (rice field looking one) + shellfish/money] My *mom* (weird looking) sat on a *shellfish* and pierced her ass Koohii #1 Ariel the Little Mermaid´s clamshell bra was held to her breasts by piercings. Koohii #2 The sad fate of Mama shellfish was to be captured and pierced to make an earring. Primitives pierce, mama, mother, breasts, oyster, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 貫禄(かんろく): presence, dignity 貫く(つらぬく): to go through Kunyomi: つらぬ.く、ぬ.く、ぬき Onyomi: カン Lesson: 6 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 貫く (つらぬ.く)	pierce 貫 画数11 106 Details Story Dictionary 貫 pierce My Story [Mom (rice field looking one) + shellfish/money] My *mom* (weird looking) sat on a *shellfish* and pierced her ass Koohii #1 Ariel the Little Mermaid´s clamshell bra was held to her breasts by piercings. Koohii #2 The sad fate of Mama shellfish was to be captured and pierced to make an earring. Primitives pierce, mama, mother, breasts, oyster, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 貫禄(かんろく): presence, dignity 貫く(つらぬく): to go through Kunyomi: つらぬ.く、ぬ.く、ぬき Onyomi: カン Lesson: 6 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 貫く (つらぬ.く)
"elder brother Details Story Dictionary 兄 elder brother Heisig's By now kanji like this one should ""look like"" something to you even though it is more of an ""ideogram"" than a ""pictograph."" The large mouth on top and the human legs below almost jump off the page as a caricature of elder brother, the one with the big mouth (or if you prefer a kinder image, the one who ""has the say"" among all the children). * As a primitive this character will take the meaning of teenager, in accord with the familiar image of the big mouth and the gangling, clumsy legs. Koohii #1 My elder brother was basically a mouth on legs when he was a teenager. Koohii #2 Mother, why is elder brother´s mouth between the neighbor girl´s legs? RTK2:　ケイ　父兄　ふけい　(father and elder brother)　　　　　　　　　キョウ　兄弟　きょうだい(brothers)…　　　　　　　　　　　　　MIXED GROUP:　(ｺｸ): 克104　(ｷｮｳ): 況145　競434　(ｼｭｸ): 祝1089. Primitives elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs 従兄弟(いとこ): male cousin 兄(あに): older brother お兄さん(おにいさん): (polite) older brother, (vocative) ""Mister?"" 兄弟(きょうだい): siblings Kunyomi: あに Onyomi: ケイ、キョウ Lesson: 6 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 兄事 (あにこと), 父兄 (ふけい), 義兄 (ぎあに), 兄 (あに)"	"elder brother 兄 画数5 107 Details Story Dictionary 兄 elder brother Heisig's By now kanji like this one should ""look like"" something to you even though it is more of an ""ideogram"" than a ""pictograph."" The large mouth on top and the human legs below almost jump off the page as a caricature of elder brother, the one with the big mouth (or if you prefer a kinder image, the one who ""has the say"" among all the children). * As a primitive this character will take the meaning of teenager, in accord with the familiar image of the big mouth and the gangling, clumsy legs. Koohii #1 My elder brother was basically a mouth on legs when he was a teenager. Koohii #2 Mother, why is elder brother´s mouth between the neighbor girl´s legs? RTK2:　ケイ　父兄　ふけい　(father and elder brother)　　　　　　　　　キョウ　兄弟　きょうだい(brothers)…　　　　　　　　　　　　　MIXED GROUP:　(ｺｸ): 克104　(ｷｮｳ): 況145　競434　(ｼｭｸ): 祝1089. Primitives elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs 従兄弟(いとこ): male cousin 兄(あに): older brother お兄さん(おにいさん): (polite) older brother, (vocative) ""Mister?"" 兄弟(きょうだい): siblings Kunyomi: あに Onyomi: ケイ、キョウ Lesson: 6 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 兄事 (あにこと), 父兄 (ふけい), 義兄 (ぎあに), 兄 (あに)"
curse Details Story Dictionary 呪 curse Heisig's For some reason, the inventor of this kanji associated a curse with the mouth of an older brother. I leave it to you to decide if he is on the giving or receiving end of the sorcery. Koohii #1 Caution: this means a spell, not to swear. I put a curse on my elder brother so that he can never open his mouth. Koohii #2 Your older brother´s mouth often curses. Primitives curse, mouth, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs, mouth2 Kunyomi: まじな.う、のろ.い、まじな.い、のろ.う Onyomi: ジュ、シュ、シュウ、ズ Lesson: 6 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 呪う (のろ.う)	curse 呪 画数8 108 Details Story Dictionary 呪 curse Heisig's For some reason, the inventor of this kanji associated a curse with the mouth of an older brother. I leave it to you to decide if he is on the giving or receiving end of the sorcery. Koohii #1 Caution: this means a spell, not to swear. I put a curse on my elder brother so that he can never open his mouth. Koohii #2 Your older brother´s mouth often curses. Primitives curse, mouth, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs, mouth2 Kunyomi: まじな.う、のろ.い、まじな.い、のろ.う Onyomi: ジュ、シュ、シュウ、ズ Lesson: 6 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 呪う (のろ.う)
overcome Details Story Dictionary 克 overcome My Story [ten/needle + older bro] My heroin-addicted *older bro* needs to overcome the *needle* Koohii #1 Ten elder brothers can overcome anything. Koohii #2 A teenager addicted to heroine must overcome the needle. Primitives overcome, ten, needle, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs 克服(こくふく): subjugation, conquest Kunyomi: か.つ Onyomi: コク Lesson: 6 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	overcome 克 画数7 109 Details Story Dictionary 克 overcome My Story [ten/needle + older bro] My heroin-addicted *older bro* needs to overcome the *needle* Koohii #1 Ten elder brothers can overcome anything. Koohii #2 A teenager addicted to heroine must overcome the needle. Primitives overcome, ten, needle, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs 克服(こくふく): subjugation, conquest Kunyomi: か.つ Onyomi: コク Lesson: 6 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"little Details Story Dictionary 小 little Heisig's The sense of little that this character represents is not the same as ""a little bit."" That meaning comes in the next frame. Here little means ""small"" or ""tiny."" The image is one of three little drops, the first of which (the one in the middle) is written larger so that the kanji has some shape to it. The point of writing it three times is to rub the point in: little, little, nothing but little. * The primitive of the same shape keeps the same meaning. Written above a horizontal line, its form is slightly altered, the last two strokes turning inwards. Koohii #1 A little penguin with its wings at its side. Koohii #2 A depressed child, head low and arms hung low, because he´s too little to ride the roller coaster. Primitives little, small 小売(こうり): retail 小柄(こがら): short (build) 小切手(こぎって): cheque, check 小銭(こぜに): coins, small change 小児科(しょうにか): pediatrics 小父さん(おじさん): middle-aged gentleman, uncle 小遣い(こづかい): personal expenses, pocket money, spending money, incidental expenses, allowance 小包(こづつみ): parcel, package 小麦(こむぎ): wheat 小屋(こや): hut, cabin, shed, (animal) pen 小指(こゆび): little finger 縮小(しゅくしょう): reduction, curtailment 小(しょう): small 小学生(しょうがくせい): grade school student 小数(しょうすう): fraction (part of), decimal 小便(しょうべん): (colloquial) urine 大小(だいしょう): size 小鳥(ことり): (small) bird 小学校(しょうがっこう): primary school 小説(しょうせつ): novel 小さな(ちいさな): small 小さい(ちいさい): small, little, tiny Kunyomi: ちい.さい、こ-、お-、さ- Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 小 (お), 小 (こ), 小さい (ちい.さい)"	"little 小 画数3 110 Details Story Dictionary 小 little Heisig's The sense of little that this character represents is not the same as ""a little bit."" That meaning comes in the next frame. Here little means ""small"" or ""tiny."" The image is one of three little drops, the first of which (the one in the middle) is written larger so that the kanji has some shape to it. The point of writing it three times is to rub the point in: little, little, nothing but little. * The primitive of the same shape keeps the same meaning. Written above a horizontal line, its form is slightly altered, the last two strokes turning inwards. Koohii #1 A little penguin with its wings at its side. Koohii #2 A depressed child, head low and arms hung low, because he´s too little to ride the roller coaster. Primitives little, small 小売(こうり): retail 小柄(こがら): short (build) 小切手(こぎって): cheque, check 小銭(こぜに): coins, small change 小児科(しょうにか): pediatrics 小父さん(おじさん): middle-aged gentleman, uncle 小遣い(こづかい): personal expenses, pocket money, spending money, incidental expenses, allowance 小包(こづつみ): parcel, package 小麦(こむぎ): wheat 小屋(こや): hut, cabin, shed, (animal) pen 小指(こゆび): little finger 縮小(しゅくしょう): reduction, curtailment 小(しょう): small 小学生(しょうがくせい): grade school student 小数(しょうすう): fraction (part of), decimal 小便(しょうべん): (colloquial) urine 大小(だいしょう): size 小鳥(ことり): (small) bird 小学校(しょうがっこう): primary school 小説(しょうせつ): novel 小さな(ちいさな): small 小さい(ちいさい): small, little, tiny Kunyomi: ちい.さい、こ-、お-、さ- Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 小 (お), 小 (こ), 小さい (ちい.さい)"
few Details Story Dictionary 少 few Heisig's First we need to look at the fourth stroke, the drop at the bottom that has been extended into a longer diagonal stroke leaning left. This happens because a single, isolated drop will NEVER appear beneath its relative primitive in its normal size, for fear it would drop off and get lost. As for the meaning, let the tiny drop indicate a further belittling of what is already little - thus making it a few of something little. Koohii #1 Only a few people can make an ugly face like that. Koohii #2 Few usually refers to three. To emphasize three, we underline the three drops in little. Primitives few, little, small, drop 少女(おとめ): daughter, young lady, virgin, maiden, little girl 減少(げんしょう): decrease, reduction, decline 少数(しょうすう): minority, few 少ない(すくない): few, a little, scarce, insufficient, seldom 少なくとも(すくなくとも): at least 少女(しょうじょ): daughter, young lady, virgin, maiden, little girl 少々(しょうしょう): just a minute, small quantity 少年(しょうねん): boys, juveniles 少しも(すこしも): anything of, not one bit 青少年(せいしょうねん): youth, young person 多少(たしょう): more or less, somewhat, a little, some 少し(すこし): small quantity, little, few, something, little while, short distance Kunyomi: すく.ない、すこ.し Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 少ない (すく.ない), 少し (すこ.し)	few 少 画数4 111 Details Story Dictionary 少 few Heisig's First we need to look at the fourth stroke, the drop at the bottom that has been extended into a longer diagonal stroke leaning left. This happens because a single, isolated drop will NEVER appear beneath its relative primitive in its normal size, for fear it would drop off and get lost. As for the meaning, let the tiny drop indicate a further belittling of what is already little - thus making it a few of something little. Koohii #1 Only a few people can make an ugly face like that. Koohii #2 Few usually refers to three. To emphasize three, we underline the three drops in little. Primitives few, little, small, drop 少女(おとめ): daughter, young lady, virgin, maiden, little girl 減少(げんしょう): decrease, reduction, decline 少数(しょうすう): minority, few 少ない(すくない): few, a little, scarce, insufficient, seldom 少なくとも(すくなくとも): at least 少女(しょうじょ): daughter, young lady, virgin, maiden, little girl 少々(しょうしょう): just a minute, small quantity 少年(しょうねん): boys, juveniles 少しも(すこしも): anything of, not one bit 青少年(せいしょうねん): youth, young person 多少(たしょう): more or less, somewhat, a little, some 少し(すこし): small quantity, little, few, something, little while, short distance Kunyomi: すく.ない、すこ.し Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 少ない (すく.ない), 少し (すこ.し)
large Details Story Dictionary 大 large Heisig's Here we have a simple pictograph of a person, taking up the space of an entire character and giving it the sense of large. It should not be too hard to locate the two legs and outstretched arms. * As a primitive, we need a different meaning, since the element representing the human person will come up later. Therefore, this shape will become a large dog or, if you prefer, a St. Bernard dog. In frame 253 we will explain why this choice was made. Koohii #1 A person stretching their arms and legs to look large and scare a bear away. Koohii #2 Think of a large St. Bernard dog with his paws all stretched out. Primitives large, St. Bernard 大方(おおかた): perhaps, almost all, majority 大柄(おおがら): large build, large pattern 大げさ(おおげさ): grandiose, exaggerated 大事(おおごと): important, valuable, serious matter 大ざっぱ(おおざっぱ): rough (as in not precise), broad, sketchy 大筋(おおすじ): outline, summary 大空(おおぞら): heaven, firmament, the sky 大幅(おおはば): full width, large scale, drastic 大水(おおみず): flood お大事に(おだいじに): Take care of yourself 盛大(せいだい): grand, prosperous, magnificent 壮大(そうだい): magnificent, grand, majestic, splendid 大概(たいがい): in general, mainly 大金(たいきん): great cost 大衆(たいしゅう): general public 大胆(だいたん): bold, daring, audacious 大抵(たいてい): usually, generally 大部(たいぶ): most (e.g. most part), greater, fairly, a good deal, much 大便(だいべん): feces, excrement, shit 短大(たんだい): junior college 長大(ちょうだい): very long, great length 偉大(いだい): greatness 大いに(おおいに): very, much, greatly 大通り(おおどおり): main street 大家(おおや): landlord, landlady 大凡(おおよそ): about, roughly, approximately, as a rule 拡大(かくだい): magnification, enlargement 巨大(きょだい): huge, gigantic, enormous 重大(じゅうだい): serious, important, grave, weighty 増大(ぞうだい): enlargement 総理大臣(そうりだいじん): Prime Minister 大(だい): great, large 大会(たいかい): convention, tournament, mass meeting, rally 大学院(だいがくいん): graduate school 大気(たいき): atmosphere 大工(だいく): carpenter 大使(たいし): ambassador 大した(たいした): considerable, great, important, significant, a big deal 大して(たいして): (not so) much, (not) very 大小(だいしょう): size 大臣(だいじん): cabinet minister 大戦(たいせん): great war, great battle 大層(たいそう): very much, exaggerated, very fine 大体(だいたい): general, substantially, outline, main point 大統領(だいとうりょう): president, chief executive 大半(たいはん): majority, mostly, generally 大分(だいぶ): very, many, a lot 大部分(だいぶぶん): most part, greater part, majority 大分(だいぶん): considerably, greatly, a lot 大木(たいぼく): large tree 大陸(たいりく): continent 莫大(ばくだい): enormous, vast 膨大(ぼうだい): huge, bulky, enormous, extensive, swelling, expansion 大きな(おおきな): big, large 大学生(だいがくせい): university student 大事(だいじ): important 大きい(おおきい): big, large, great 大勢(おおぜい): many, a great number (of people) 大人(おとな): adult 大学(だいがく): university 大使館(たいしかん): embassy 大丈夫(だいじょうぶ): safe, all right, O.K. 大好き(だいすき): very likeable, like very much 大切(たいせつ): important Kunyomi: おお-、おお.きい、-おお.いに Onyomi: ダイ、タイ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 大小 (だいしょう), 大胆 (だいたん), 拡大 (かくだい), 大 (おお), 大いに (おお.いに), 大きい (おお.きい)	large 大 画数3 112 Details Story Dictionary 大 large Heisig's Here we have a simple pictograph of a person, taking up the space of an entire character and giving it the sense of large. It should not be too hard to locate the two legs and outstretched arms. * As a primitive, we need a different meaning, since the element representing the human person will come up later. Therefore, this shape will become a large dog or, if you prefer, a St. Bernard dog. In frame 253 we will explain why this choice was made. Koohii #1 A person stretching their arms and legs to look large and scare a bear away. Koohii #2 Think of a large St. Bernard dog with his paws all stretched out. Primitives large, St. Bernard 大方(おおかた): perhaps, almost all, majority 大柄(おおがら): large build, large pattern 大げさ(おおげさ): grandiose, exaggerated 大事(おおごと): important, valuable, serious matter 大ざっぱ(おおざっぱ): rough (as in not precise), broad, sketchy 大筋(おおすじ): outline, summary 大空(おおぞら): heaven, firmament, the sky 大幅(おおはば): full width, large scale, drastic 大水(おおみず): flood お大事に(おだいじに): Take care of yourself 盛大(せいだい): grand, prosperous, magnificent 壮大(そうだい): magnificent, grand, majestic, splendid 大概(たいがい): in general, mainly 大金(たいきん): great cost 大衆(たいしゅう): general public 大胆(だいたん): bold, daring, audacious 大抵(たいてい): usually, generally 大部(たいぶ): most (e.g. most part), greater, fairly, a good deal, much 大便(だいべん): feces, excrement, shit 短大(たんだい): junior college 長大(ちょうだい): very long, great length 偉大(いだい): greatness 大いに(おおいに): very, much, greatly 大通り(おおどおり): main street 大家(おおや): landlord, landlady 大凡(おおよそ): about, roughly, approximately, as a rule 拡大(かくだい): magnification, enlargement 巨大(きょだい): huge, gigantic, enormous 重大(じゅうだい): serious, important, grave, weighty 増大(ぞうだい): enlargement 総理大臣(そうりだいじん): Prime Minister 大(だい): great, large 大会(たいかい): convention, tournament, mass meeting, rally 大学院(だいがくいん): graduate school 大気(たいき): atmosphere 大工(だいく): carpenter 大使(たいし): ambassador 大した(たいした): considerable, great, important, significant, a big deal 大して(たいして): (not so) much, (not) very 大小(だいしょう): size 大臣(だいじん): cabinet minister 大戦(たいせん): great war, great battle 大層(たいそう): very much, exaggerated, very fine 大体(だいたい): general, substantially, outline, main point 大統領(だいとうりょう): president, chief executive 大半(たいはん): majority, mostly, generally 大分(だいぶ): very, many, a lot 大部分(だいぶぶん): most part, greater part, majority 大分(だいぶん): considerably, greatly, a lot 大木(たいぼく): large tree 大陸(たいりく): continent 莫大(ばくだい): enormous, vast 膨大(ぼうだい): huge, bulky, enormous, extensive, swelling, expansion 大きな(おおきな): big, large 大学生(だいがくせい): university student 大事(だいじ): important 大きい(おおきい): big, large, great 大勢(おおぜい): many, a great number (of people) 大人(おとな): adult 大学(だいがく): university 大使館(たいしかん): embassy 大丈夫(だいじょうぶ): safe, all right, O.K. 大好き(だいすき): very likeable, like very much 大切(たいせつ): important Kunyomi: おお-、おお.きい、-おお.いに Onyomi: ダイ、タイ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 大小 (だいしょう), 大胆 (だいたん), 拡大 (かくだい), 大 (おお), 大いに (おお.いに), 大きい (おお.きい)
"many Details Story Dictionary 多 many Heisig's ""Many moons ago,"" begins much of Amerindian folklore - a colorful way of saying ""Once upon a time"" and a great deal of help for remembering this kanji. Here we have two moons (three of them would take us back to the beginning of time, which is further than we want to go), lacking the final stroke because they are partially hidden behind the clouds of time. Koohii #1 Two evenings too many! Koohii #2 This reminds me of a childish pseudo-confucion rhyme: ""He who eats many prunes sits on toilet many moons"". Primitives many, evening, evening2 幾多(いくた): many, numerous 過多(かた): excess, superabundance 加留多(かるた): (pt:) (n) playing cards (pt: carta) 多数決(たすうけつ): majority rule 多分(たぶん): perhaps, probably 多忙(たぼう): busy, pressure of work 多様(たよう): diversity, variety 多少(たしょう): more or less, somewhat, a little, some 滅多に(めったに): rarely (with negative verb), seldom 多い(おおい): have a lot of Kunyomi: おお.い、まさ.に、まさ.る Onyomi: タ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 多い (おお.い)"	"many 多 画数6 113 Details Story Dictionary 多 many Heisig's ""Many moons ago,"" begins much of Amerindian folklore - a colorful way of saying ""Once upon a time"" and a great deal of help for remembering this kanji. Here we have two moons (three of them would take us back to the beginning of time, which is further than we want to go), lacking the final stroke because they are partially hidden behind the clouds of time. Koohii #1 Two evenings too many! Koohii #2 This reminds me of a childish pseudo-confucion rhyme: ""He who eats many prunes sits on toilet many moons"". Primitives many, evening, evening2 幾多(いくた): many, numerous 過多(かた): excess, superabundance 加留多(かるた): (pt:) (n) playing cards (pt: carta) 多数決(たすうけつ): majority rule 多分(たぶん): perhaps, probably 多忙(たぼう): busy, pressure of work 多様(たよう): diversity, variety 多少(たしょう): more or less, somewhat, a little, some 滅多に(めったに): rarely (with negative verb), seldom 多い(おおい): have a lot of Kunyomi: おお.い、まさ.に、まさ.る Onyomi: タ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 多い (おお.い)"
"evening Details Story Dictionary 夕 evening My Story タ (katakana TA) * The primitive keeps the same meaning and connotation as the kanji. Koohii #1 The evening is young, the moon is not full. Koohii #2 In the evening, I try my best to remember the katakana symbol for ""TA"" (ie. ""ta ta!""). Primitives evening 夕暮れ(ゆうぐれ): evening, (evening) twilight 夕焼け(ゆうやけ): sunset 夕刊(ゆうかん): evening paper 夕立(ゆうだち): (sudden) evening shower (rain) 夕日(ゆうひ): setting sun 夕べ(ゆうべ): evening, last night 夕飯(ゆうはん): dinner 夕方(ゆうがた): evening Kunyomi: ゆう Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 夕 (ゆう)"	"evening 夕 画数3 114 Details Story Dictionary 夕 evening My Story タ (katakana TA) * The primitive keeps the same meaning and connotation as the kanji. Koohii #1 The evening is young, the moon is not full. Koohii #2 In the evening, I try my best to remember the katakana symbol for ""TA"" (ie. ""ta ta!""). Primitives evening 夕暮れ(ゆうぐれ): evening, (evening) twilight 夕焼け(ゆうやけ): sunset 夕刊(ゆうかん): evening paper 夕立(ゆうだち): (sudden) evening shower (rain) 夕日(ゆうひ): setting sun 夕べ(ゆうべ): evening, last night 夕飯(ゆうはん): dinner 夕方(ゆうがた): evening Kunyomi: ゆう Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 夕 (ゆう)"
eventide Details Story Dictionary 汐 eventide My Story [Water + Evening {夕}] Eventide is just another word for *evening*, and it has the word tide in it which we associate with *water*. Koohii #1 Eventide is just another word for evening, and it has the word tide in it which we associate with water. Koohii #2 Drops of water shower the beach as the evening tide approaches: eventide. Primitives eventide, water, water droplets, water pistol, evening Kunyomi: しお、うしお、せい Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	eventide 汐 画数6 115 Details Story Dictionary 汐 eventide My Story [Water + Evening {夕}] Eventide is just another word for *evening*, and it has the word tide in it which we associate with *water*. Koohii #1 Eventide is just another word for evening, and it has the word tide in it which we associate with water. Koohii #2 Drops of water shower the beach as the evening tide approaches: eventide. Primitives eventide, water, water droplets, water pistol, evening Kunyomi: しお、うしお、せい Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
outside Details Story Dictionary 外 outside Heisig's On the left, the primitive for evening, and on the right, that for the magic wand. Now, as every magician worth his abracadabra knows, bringing your magic wand out into the evening air makes your magic much more powerful than if you were to stay indoors. Hence, evening and magic wand takes you naturally outside. Koohii #1 A young magician likes to practice outside in the evening with his magic wand (as opposed to the old magician who wakes early to practice with his wand in eminent (#51)). Koohii #2 Outside in the dark of evening, only a magic wand can help you. Primitives outside, evening, magic wand, augury 域外(いきがい): outside the area 外貨(がいか): imported goods, foreign money 外観(がいかん): appearance, exterior, facade 外相(がいしょう): Foreign Minister 外来(がいらい): imported, outpatient clinic 課外(かがい): extracurricular 除外(じょがい): exception, exclusion 外方(そっぽ): look (or turn) the other way その外(そのほか): besides, in addition, the rest 野外(やがい): fields, outskirts, open air, suburbs 案外(あんがい): unexpectedly 以外(いがい): except for, other than 意外(いがい): unexpected, surprising 屋外(おくがい): outdoors 海外(かいがい): foreign, abroad, overseas 外交(がいこう): diplomacy 外出(がいしゅつ): outing, going out 外部(がいぶ): the outside, external 外科(げか): surgical department 外す(はずす): unfasten, remove 外れる(はずれる): be disconnected, get out of place, be off, be out (e.g. of gear) 例外(れいがい): exception 郊外(こうがい): suburbs 外国(がいこく): foreign country 外国人(がいこくじん): foreigner 外(そと): other place, the rest 外(ほか): other place, the rest Kunyomi: そと、ほか、はず.す、はず.れる、と- Onyomi: ガイ、ゲ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 外出 (がいしゅつ), 海外 (かいがい), 除外 (じょがい), 外 (そと), 外す (はず.す), 外れる (はず.れる), 外 (ほか)	outside 外 画数5 116 Details Story Dictionary 外 outside Heisig's On the left, the primitive for evening, and on the right, that for the magic wand. Now, as every magician worth his abracadabra knows, bringing your magic wand out into the evening air makes your magic much more powerful than if you were to stay indoors. Hence, evening and magic wand takes you naturally outside. Koohii #1 A young magician likes to practice outside in the evening with his magic wand (as opposed to the old magician who wakes early to practice with his wand in eminent (#51)). Koohii #2 Outside in the dark of evening, only a magic wand can help you. Primitives outside, evening, magic wand, augury 域外(いきがい): outside the area 外貨(がいか): imported goods, foreign money 外観(がいかん): appearance, exterior, facade 外相(がいしょう): Foreign Minister 外来(がいらい): imported, outpatient clinic 課外(かがい): extracurricular 除外(じょがい): exception, exclusion 外方(そっぽ): look (or turn) the other way その外(そのほか): besides, in addition, the rest 野外(やがい): fields, outskirts, open air, suburbs 案外(あんがい): unexpectedly 以外(いがい): except for, other than 意外(いがい): unexpected, surprising 屋外(おくがい): outdoors 海外(かいがい): foreign, abroad, overseas 外交(がいこう): diplomacy 外出(がいしゅつ): outing, going out 外部(がいぶ): the outside, external 外科(げか): surgical department 外す(はずす): unfasten, remove 外れる(はずれる): be disconnected, get out of place, be off, be out (e.g. of gear) 例外(れいがい): exception 郊外(こうがい): suburbs 外国(がいこく): foreign country 外国人(がいこくじん): foreigner 外(そと): other place, the rest 外(ほか): other place, the rest Kunyomi: そと、ほか、はず.す、はず.れる、と- Onyomi: ガイ、ゲ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 外出 (がいしゅつ), 海外 (かいがい), 除外 (じょがい), 外 (そと), 外す (はず.す), 外れる (はず.れる), 外 (ほか)
name Details Story Dictionary 名 name Heisig's Perhaps you have heard of the custom, still preserved in certain African tribes, of a father creeping into the tent or hut of his newborn child on the night of the child's birth, to whisper into its ear the name he has chosen for it, before making his choice public. It is an impressive naming custom and fits in tidily with the way this character is constructed: evening . . . mouth. At evening time, a mouth pronounces the name that will accompany one throughout life. Koohii #1 In the evening, when it becomes dark, open your mouth to say your name so that people can recognise you. Koohii #2 In the evening, her sweet mouth whispered my name. Primitives name, evening, mouth 記名(きめい): signature, register 姓名(せいめい): full name 著名(ちょめい): well-known, noted, celebrated 名残(なごり): remains, traces, memory 名高い(なだかい): famous, celebrated, well-known 名付ける(なづける): to name (someone) 名札(なふだ): name plate, name tag 本名(ほんみょう): real name 名産(めいさん): noted product 名称(めいしょう): name 名簿(めいぼ): register of names 名誉(めいよ): honor, credit, prestige 宛名(あてな): address, direction 送り仮名(おくりがな): kana written after a kanji to complete the full (usually kun) reading of the word 仮名(かな): kana, alias, pseudonym, pen name 仮名遣い(かなづかい): kana orthography, syllabary spelling 氏名(しめい): full name, identity 署名(しょめい): signature 題名(だいめい): title 代名詞(だいめいし): pronoun 地名(ちめい): place name 名(な): name, reputation 振り仮名(ふりがな): hiragana over kanji, pronunciation key 名字(みょうじ): surname, family name 名作(めいさく): masterpiece 名刺(めいし): business card 名詞(めいし): noun 名所(めいしょ): famous place 名人(めいじん): master, expert 名物(めいぶつ): famous product, speciality 片仮名(かたかな): katakana 名前(なまえ): name 平仮名(ひらがな): hiragana, 47 syllables, the cursive syllabary 有名(ゆうめい): fame Kunyomi: な、-な Onyomi: メイ、ミョウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 名誉 (めいよ), 氏名 (しめい), 有名 (ゆうめい), 名 (な)	name 名 画数6 117 Details Story Dictionary 名 name Heisig's Perhaps you have heard of the custom, still preserved in certain African tribes, of a father creeping into the tent or hut of his newborn child on the night of the child's birth, to whisper into its ear the name he has chosen for it, before making his choice public. It is an impressive naming custom and fits in tidily with the way this character is constructed: evening . . . mouth. At evening time, a mouth pronounces the name that will accompany one throughout life. Koohii #1 In the evening, when it becomes dark, open your mouth to say your name so that people can recognise you. Koohii #2 In the evening, her sweet mouth whispered my name. Primitives name, evening, mouth 記名(きめい): signature, register 姓名(せいめい): full name 著名(ちょめい): well-known, noted, celebrated 名残(なごり): remains, traces, memory 名高い(なだかい): famous, celebrated, well-known 名付ける(なづける): to name (someone) 名札(なふだ): name plate, name tag 本名(ほんみょう): real name 名産(めいさん): noted product 名称(めいしょう): name 名簿(めいぼ): register of names 名誉(めいよ): honor, credit, prestige 宛名(あてな): address, direction 送り仮名(おくりがな): kana written after a kanji to complete the full (usually kun) reading of the word 仮名(かな): kana, alias, pseudonym, pen name 仮名遣い(かなづかい): kana orthography, syllabary spelling 氏名(しめい): full name, identity 署名(しょめい): signature 題名(だいめい): title 代名詞(だいめいし): pronoun 地名(ちめい): place name 名(な): name, reputation 振り仮名(ふりがな): hiragana over kanji, pronunciation key 名字(みょうじ): surname, family name 名作(めいさく): masterpiece 名刺(めいし): business card 名詞(めいし): noun 名所(めいしょ): famous place 名人(めいじん): master, expert 名物(めいぶつ): famous product, speciality 片仮名(かたかな): katakana 名前(なまえ): name 平仮名(ひらがな): hiragana, 47 syllables, the cursive syllabary 有名(ゆうめい): fame Kunyomi: な、-な Onyomi: メイ、ミョウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 名誉 (めいよ), 氏名 (しめい), 有名 (ゆうめい), 名 (な)
stone Details Story Dictionary 石 stone My Story [Bent T + Mouth] The stone RIGHT there! (Looks like the kanji for みぎ {右} ) * The stone is a quite common primitive element, which is not restricted to great boulders but used of stones or rocks of any size or shape. Koohii #1 Indiana Jones jumps up and grabs the lip of cliff just in time to evade the huge STONE rolling out of the mouth of the cave! Koohii #2 There´s a VERY simple way to remember this, in case the cliff thing isn´t working for you... Just see it as a stone [いし] being hammered by a miner searching for jewel stones [ほうせき] ;). Primitives stone, cliff, mouth 化石(かせき): fossil, petrifaction, fossilization 岩石(がんせき): rock 石鹸(せっけん): soap 流石(さすが): clever, adept, good, expectations, as one would expect 磁石(じしゃく): magnet 石炭(せきたん): coal 石油(せきゆ): oil, petroleum, kerosene 宝石(ほうせき): gem, jewel 石(いし): stone Kunyomi: いし Onyomi: セキ、シャク、コク Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 石材 (せきざい), 岩石 (がんせき), 宝石 (ほうせき), 磁石 (じしゃく), 石 (いし)	stone 石 画数5 118 Details Story Dictionary 石 stone My Story [Bent T + Mouth] The stone RIGHT there! (Looks like the kanji for みぎ {右} ) * The stone is a quite common primitive element, which is not restricted to great boulders but used of stones or rocks of any size or shape. Koohii #1 Indiana Jones jumps up and grabs the lip of cliff just in time to evade the huge STONE rolling out of the mouth of the cave! Koohii #2 There´s a VERY simple way to remember this, in case the cliff thing isn´t working for you... Just see it as a stone [いし] being hammered by a miner searching for jewel stones [ほうせき] ;). Primitives stone, cliff, mouth 化石(かせき): fossil, petrifaction, fossilization 岩石(がんせき): rock 石鹸(せっけん): soap 流石(さすが): clever, adept, good, expectations, as one would expect 磁石(じしゃく): magnet 石炭(せきたん): coal 石油(せきゆ): oil, petroleum, kerosene 宝石(ほうせき): gem, jewel 石(いし): stone Kunyomi: いし Onyomi: セキ、シャク、コク Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 石材 (せきざい), 岩石 (がんせき), 宝石 (ほうせき), 磁石 (じしゃく), 石 (いし)
"resemblance Details Story Dictionary 肖 resemblance Heisig's The word resemblance should suggest, among other things, a son's resemblance to his father. A ""chip off the old block"" is the way we often put it, but the character is more simple. It speaks of a little bit of flesh. * When used as a primitive, the sense of resemblance is replaced by that of spark or candle. (If you want an explanation: the kanji for moon also carries a secondary sense of fire, which we omitted because we are keeping that meaning for other primitives.) Koohii #1 Using DNA matching, a very little bit of flesh can be used to show the resemblence between family members. Koohii #2 Hey baby, it might be a little bit of flesh now, but in a moment it´ll bear a strong resemblance to a candlestick.(nudge nudge, wink wink). Primitives resemblance, spark, candle, small, little, moon, month, flesh, part of the body Kunyomi: あやか.る Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"resemblance 肖 画数7 119 Details Story Dictionary 肖 resemblance Heisig's The word resemblance should suggest, among other things, a son's resemblance to his father. A ""chip off the old block"" is the way we often put it, but the character is more simple. It speaks of a little bit of flesh. * When used as a primitive, the sense of resemblance is replaced by that of spark or candle. (If you want an explanation: the kanji for moon also carries a secondary sense of fire, which we omitted because we are keeping that meaning for other primitives.) Koohii #1 Using DNA matching, a very little bit of flesh can be used to show the resemblence between family members. Koohii #2 Hey baby, it might be a little bit of flesh now, but in a moment it´ll bear a strong resemblance to a candlestick.(nudge nudge, wink wink). Primitives resemblance, spark, candle, small, little, moon, month, flesh, part of the body Kunyomi: あやか.る Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"nitrate Details Story Dictionary 硝 nitrate My Story [Stone {石}, resemble {肖}] Nitrate has a *stone* *resemblance*. To make a *stone* (石) *resemble* (肖) a bullet you need nitrate Koohii #1 That stone has sparks coming out of it! Someone must have poured nitrate acid on it. Koohii #2 Salpetre is the common name for Nitrate coming from Latin ""sal petrae"" or stone salt. It is also a component of gun powder so including a candle in this kanji can be quite explosive! Primitives nitrate, stone, rock, resemblance, spark, candle, small, little, moon, month, flesh, part of the body Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"nitrate 硝 画数12 120 Details Story Dictionary 硝 nitrate My Story [Stone {石}, resemble {肖}] Nitrate has a *stone* *resemblance*. To make a *stone* (石) *resemble* (肖) a bullet you need nitrate Koohii #1 That stone has sparks coming out of it! Someone must have poured nitrate acid on it. Koohii #2 Salpetre is the common name for Nitrate coming from Latin ""sal petrae"" or stone salt. It is also a component of gun powder so including a candle in this kanji can be quite explosive! Primitives nitrate, stone, rock, resemblance, spark, candle, small, little, moon, month, flesh, part of the body Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
smash Details Story Dictionary 砕 smash My Story [Stone + Nine + Ten/needle] To SMASH a STONE you need to hit it NINE or TEN times. Koohii #1 To SMASH a STONE you need to hit it NINE or TEN times. Koohii #2 The Stones (the Rolling Stones) are 90 aged but they´ve done a new SMASH hit! Primitives smash, stone, rock, ninety, nine, baseball, ten, needle 砕く(くだく): break, smash 砕ける(くだける): break, be broken Kunyomi: くだ.く、くだ.ける Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 砕く (くだ.く), 砕ける (くだ.ける)	smash 砕 画数9 121 Details Story Dictionary 砕 smash My Story [Stone + Nine + Ten/needle] To SMASH a STONE you need to hit it NINE or TEN times. Koohii #1 To SMASH a STONE you need to hit it NINE or TEN times. Koohii #2 The Stones (the Rolling Stones) are 90 aged but they´ve done a new SMASH hit! Primitives smash, stone, rock, ninety, nine, baseball, ten, needle 砕く(くだく): break, smash 砕ける(くだける): break, be broken Kunyomi: くだ.く、くだ.ける Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 砕く (くだ.く), 砕ける (くだ.ける)
sand Details Story Dictionary 砂 sand My Story [Stone {石} + Few {少}] Sand starts out as a *stone* and turns into a *few* grains used in: 砂糖 (さとう) Koohii #1 Here´s how I remember that stone is on the left. This is because sand starts as stones, and only later they become few. Koohii #2 In good SAND, stones are few, if any. Primitives sand, stone, rock, few 砂利(じゃり): gravel, ballast, pebbles 砂漠(さばく): desert 砂(すな): sand 砂糖(さとう): sugar Kunyomi: すな Onyomi: サ、シャ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 砂丘 (さきゅう), 砂糖 (さとう), 砂 (すな)	sand 砂 画数9 122 Details Story Dictionary 砂 sand My Story [Stone {石} + Few {少}] Sand starts out as a *stone* and turns into a *few* grains used in: 砂糖 (さとう) Koohii #1 Here´s how I remember that stone is on the left. This is because sand starts as stones, and only later they become few. Koohii #2 In good SAND, stones are few, if any. Primitives sand, stone, rock, few 砂利(じゃり): gravel, ballast, pebbles 砂漠(さばく): desert 砂(すな): sand 砂糖(さとう): sugar Kunyomi: すな Onyomi: サ、シャ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 砂丘 (さきゅう), 砂糖 (さとう), 砂 (すな)
jealous Details Story Dictionary 妬 jealous My Story [Woman + Stone] I am jealous of *women* (女) who have fat *stones* (石) on their finger. kanji with similar meaning: CAREFUL! {羨}; {嫉} Koohii #1 The jealous woman bashed the brains in of the guy who betrayed her, with a stone. Koohii #2 Every woman wants a huge stone on her finger to make her friends jealous. Primitives jealous, woman, stone, rock 嫉妬(しっと): jealousy 妬む(ねたむ): to be jealous, to be envious Kunyomi: ねた.む、そね.む、つも.る、ふさ.ぐ Onyomi: ト、ツ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 妬む (ねた.む)	jealous 妬 画数8 123 Details Story Dictionary 妬 jealous My Story [Woman + Stone] I am jealous of *women* (女) who have fat *stones* (石) on their finger. kanji with similar meaning: CAREFUL! {羨}; {嫉} Koohii #1 The jealous woman bashed the brains in of the guy who betrayed her, with a stone. Koohii #2 Every woman wants a huge stone on her finger to make her friends jealous. Primitives jealous, woman, stone, rock 嫉妬(しっと): jealousy 妬む(ねたむ): to be jealous, to be envious Kunyomi: ねた.む、そね.む、つも.る、ふさ.ぐ Onyomi: ト、ツ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 妬む (ねた.む)
plane (sharpen, whittle, pare, s Details Story Dictionary 削 plane (sharpen, whittle, pare, s My Story [Resemble {肖} + Realistic saber] STORY: To plane: a word that *resembles* to sharpen, but it uses a sharp tool like a *realistic saber* DEF: To plane: to make smooth or even by use of a plane Koohii #1 Sparks will fly if you attempt to PLANE your sabre. Koohii #2 With today´s strict air regulations, carrying a sabre onto a plane could spark quite a commotion. Primitives plane, resemblance, spark, candle, small, little, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sword, sabre, saber 削減(さくげん): cut, reduction, curtailment 削る(けずる): shave (wood or leather), sharpen, plane, whittle, scrape off, reduce, remove, erase 削除(さくじょ): elimination, cancellation, deletion, erasure Kunyomi: けず.る、はつ.る、そ.ぐ Onyomi: サク Lesson: 7 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 削る (けず.る)	plane (sharpen, whittle, pare, s 削 画数9 124 Details Story Dictionary 削 plane (sharpen, whittle, pare, s My Story [Resemble {肖} + Realistic saber] STORY: To plane: a word that *resembles* to sharpen, but it uses a sharp tool like a *realistic saber* DEF: To plane: to make smooth or even by use of a plane Koohii #1 Sparks will fly if you attempt to PLANE your sabre. Koohii #2 With today´s strict air regulations, carrying a sabre onto a plane could spark quite a commotion. Primitives plane, resemblance, spark, candle, small, little, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sword, sabre, saber 削減(さくげん): cut, reduction, curtailment 削る(けずる): shave (wood or leather), sharpen, plane, whittle, scrape off, reduce, remove, erase 削除(さくじょ): elimination, cancellation, deletion, erasure Kunyomi: けず.る、はつ.る、そ.ぐ Onyomi: サク Lesson: 7 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 削る (けず.る)
ray Details Story Dictionary 光 ray My Story [3 lines + Pie] Koohii #1 A ray of light is not a wave but made of little photons with human legs. Koohii #2 The ray from Honey I Shrunk the Kids made people little - ha! look at them run around on their tiny legs! Primitives ray, small, little, human legs 稲光(いなびかり): (flash of) lightning 光沢(こうたく): brilliance, polish, lustre, glossy finish (of photographs) 光熱費(こうねつひ): cost of fuel and light 観光(かんこう): sightseeing 蛍光灯(けいこうとう): fluorescent lamp, person who is slow to react 光景(こうけい): scene, spectacle 光線(こうせん): beam, light ray 日光(にっこう): sunlight 光(ひかり): light 光る(ひかる): shine, glitter, be bright Kunyomi: ひか.る、ひかり Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 光る (ひか.る), 光 (ひかり)	ray 光 画数6 125 Details Story Dictionary 光 ray My Story [3 lines + Pie] Koohii #1 A ray of light is not a wave but made of little photons with human legs. Koohii #2 The ray from Honey I Shrunk the Kids made people little - ha! look at them run around on their tiny legs! Primitives ray, small, little, human legs 稲光(いなびかり): (flash of) lightning 光沢(こうたく): brilliance, polish, lustre, glossy finish (of photographs) 光熱費(こうねつひ): cost of fuel and light 観光(かんこう): sightseeing 蛍光灯(けいこうとう): fluorescent lamp, person who is slow to react 光景(こうけい): scene, spectacle 光線(こうせん): beam, light ray 日光(にっこう): sunlight 光(ひかり): light 光る(ひかる): shine, glitter, be bright Kunyomi: ひか.る、ひかり Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 光る (ひか.る), 光 (ひかり)
"plump Details Story Dictionary 太 plump My Story That PLUMP *big* man can't help *drop*ping sweat. 太い Koohii #1 A large person with a big drop of sweat dripping off of him because he is so plump. Koohii #2 Fat(""plump"") men always have small penises.....the kanji is a combination of ""large"" with a drop(representing the small penis between his legs). Primitives plump, large, St. Bernard, drop 太鼓(たいこ): drum, tambourine 太陽(たいよう): sun, solar 太る(ふとる): grow fat 太い(ふとい): fat, thick Kunyomi: ふと.い、ふと.る Onyomi: タイ、タ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 太陽 (たいよう), 太鼓 (たいこ), 皇太子 (こうたいし), 太い (ふと.い), 太る (ふと.る)"	"plump 太 画数4 126 Details Story Dictionary 太 plump My Story That PLUMP *big* man can't help *drop*ping sweat. 太い Koohii #1 A large person with a big drop of sweat dripping off of him because he is so plump. Koohii #2 Fat(""plump"") men always have small penises.....the kanji is a combination of ""large"" with a drop(representing the small penis between his legs). Primitives plump, large, St. Bernard, drop 太鼓(たいこ): drum, tambourine 太陽(たいよう): sun, solar 太る(ふとる): grow fat 太い(ふとい): fat, thick Kunyomi: ふと.い、ふと.る Onyomi: タイ、タ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 太陽 (たいよう), 太鼓 (たいこ), 皇太子 (こうたいし), 太い (ふと.い), 太る (ふと.る)"
"utensil Details Story Dictionary 器 utensil Heisig's The picture in this kanji is not a pleasant one. It shows a large and fluffy St. Bernard dog stretched out on a table all stuffed and stewed and garnished with vegetables, its paws in the air and an apple in its mouth. At each corner of the table sits an eager but empty mouth, waiting for the utensils to arrive so the feast can begin. Koohii #1 Imagine four hungry mouths all sitting around the table. They are all banging their utensils on the table waiting for a big meal to be placed in the centre. Koohii #2 Note: 器 by itself means container/caliber/vessel. And 食器 means eating utensils (""food container"", hehe). Primitives utensil, mouth, large, St. Bernard, mouth4 器(うつわ): bowl, vessel, container 器官(きかん): organ (of body), instrument 計器(けいき): meter, gauge 磁器(じき): porcelain, china 聴診器(ちょうしんき): stethoscope 陶器(とうき): pottery, ceramics 兵器(へいき): arms, weapons, ordinance 宝器(ほうき): treasured article or vessel, outstanding individual 楽器(がっき): musical instrument 器械(きかい): instrument 器具(きぐ): utensil 器用(きよう): skillful, handy 受話器(じゅわき): telephone receiver 食器(しょっき): tableware 武器(ぶき): weapon, arms, ordinance 容器(ようき): container, vessel Kunyomi: うつわ Onyomi: キ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 器 (うつわ)"	"utensil 器 画数15 127 Details Story Dictionary 器 utensil Heisig's The picture in this kanji is not a pleasant one. It shows a large and fluffy St. Bernard dog stretched out on a table all stuffed and stewed and garnished with vegetables, its paws in the air and an apple in its mouth. At each corner of the table sits an eager but empty mouth, waiting for the utensils to arrive so the feast can begin. Koohii #1 Imagine four hungry mouths all sitting around the table. They are all banging their utensils on the table waiting for a big meal to be placed in the centre. Koohii #2 Note: 器 by itself means container/caliber/vessel. And 食器 means eating utensils (""food container"", hehe). Primitives utensil, mouth, large, St. Bernard, mouth4 器(うつわ): bowl, vessel, container 器官(きかん): organ (of body), instrument 計器(けいき): meter, gauge 磁器(じき): porcelain, china 聴診器(ちょうしんき): stethoscope 陶器(とうき): pottery, ceramics 兵器(へいき): arms, weapons, ordinance 宝器(ほうき): treasured article or vessel, outstanding individual 楽器(がっき): musical instrument 器械(きかい): instrument 器具(きぐ): utensil 器用(きよう): skillful, handy 受話器(じゅわき): telephone receiver 食器(しょっき): tableware 武器(ぶき): weapon, arms, ordinance 容器(ようき): container, vessel Kunyomi: うつわ Onyomi: キ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 器 (うつわ)"
stinking Details Story Dictionary 臭 stinking My Story When puberty starts, your *own* (自) body will become *big* and you will start to stinking more and more Koohii #1 The ST. BERNARD DOG lifted his large NOSE high in the air to find out where the stinking smell comes from. Koohii #2 When I is big, Ego stinking. Primitives stinking, nose, drop, eye, large, St. Bernard 生臭い(なまぐさい): smelling of fish or blood, fish or meat 臭い(くさい): stinking 面倒臭い(めんどうくさい): bother to do, tiresome Kunyomi: くさ.い、-くさ.い、にお.う、にお.い Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 臭い (くさ.い)	stinking 臭 画数9 128 Details Story Dictionary 臭 stinking My Story When puberty starts, your *own* (自) body will become *big* and you will start to stinking more and more Koohii #1 The ST. BERNARD DOG lifted his large NOSE high in the air to find out where the stinking smell comes from. Koohii #2 When I is big, Ego stinking. Primitives stinking, nose, drop, eye, large, St. Bernard 生臭い(なまぐさい): smelling of fish or blood, fish or meat 臭い(くさい): stinking 面倒臭い(めんどうくさい): bother to do, tiresome Kunyomi: くさ.い、-くさ.い、にお.う、にお.い Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 臭い (くさ.い)
sniff Details Story Dictionary 嗅 sniff Heisig's You have seen those scratch'n'sniff advertisements for perfumes. This one is for a mouthwash that replaces one stinking oder with another. Koohii #1 Your mouth stinks: you need to sniff your breath. Koohii #2 You open your mouth and gasp for air, 1 sniff of that stinking chihuahua is too much. *Edited thecite's to reflect the keyword in the supplement. Kunyomi: か.ぐ Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	sniff 嗅 画数12 129 Details Story Dictionary 嗅 sniff Heisig's You have seen those scratch'n'sniff advertisements for perfumes. This one is for a mouthwash that replaces one stinking oder with another. Koohii #1 Your mouth stinks: you need to sniff your breath. Koohii #2 You open your mouth and gasp for air, 1 sniff of that stinking chihuahua is too much. *Edited thecite's to reflect the keyword in the supplement. Kunyomi: か.ぐ Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
exquisite Details Story Dictionary 妙 exquisite My Story [Woman + Few] Exquisite *women* are *few*, we need more Hitmoi Tanakas in the world Koohii #1 Exquisite women are few and far between. Koohii #2 A geisha is an exquisite and delicate (another meaning of this kanji) women, however, even in the past there was only few of them. Primitives exquisite, woman, few 巧妙(こうみょう): ingenious, skillful, clever, deft 奇妙(きみょう): strange, queer, curious 微妙(びみょう): delicate, subtle 妙(みょう): strange, unusual Kunyomi: たえ Onyomi: ミョウ、ビョウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	exquisite 妙 画数7 130 Details Story Dictionary 妙 exquisite My Story [Woman + Few] Exquisite *women* are *few*, we need more Hitmoi Tanakas in the world Koohii #1 Exquisite women are few and far between. Koohii #2 A geisha is an exquisite and delicate (another meaning of this kanji) women, however, even in the past there was only few of them. Primitives exquisite, woman, few 巧妙(こうみょう): ingenious, skillful, clever, deft 奇妙(きみょう): strange, queer, curious 微妙(びみょう): delicate, subtle 妙(みょう): strange, unusual Kunyomi: たえ Onyomi: ミョウ、ビョウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
focus Details Story Dictionary 省 focus My Story [Few + eye] *Few* distractions will catch your *eye* if you have FOCUS. Koohii #1 You focus by concentrating your eye on fewer objects. Koohii #2 Success (or survival?) method for accelerated juggling course: focus on a few nitroglycerine filled juggling balls flying OVER your eyes ---(I have trouble with this few primitive that can be anywhere in a kanji. To build in its location in the story is important somehow). Primitives focus, few, eye 省みる(かえりみる): to reflect 省略(しょうりゃく): omission, abbreviation, abridgment 省く(はぶく): omit, eliminate, curtail, economize 反省(はんせい): reflection, reconsideration, introspection, meditation, contemplation Kunyomi: かえり.みる、はぶ.く Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 反省 (はんせい), 内省 (ないせい), 帰省 (きせい), 省みる (かえり.みる), 省く (はぶ.く)	focus 省 画数9 131 Details Story Dictionary 省 focus My Story [Few + eye] *Few* distractions will catch your *eye* if you have FOCUS. Koohii #1 You focus by concentrating your eye on fewer objects. Koohii #2 Success (or survival?) method for accelerated juggling course: focus on a few nitroglycerine filled juggling balls flying OVER your eyes ---(I have trouble with this few primitive that can be anywhere in a kanji. To build in its location in the story is important somehow). Primitives focus, few, eye 省みる(かえりみる): to reflect 省略(しょうりゃく): omission, abbreviation, abridgment 省く(はぶく): omit, eliminate, curtail, economize 反省(はんせい): reflection, reconsideration, introspection, meditation, contemplation Kunyomi: かえり.みる、はぶ.く Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 反省 (はんせい), 内省 (ないせい), 帰省 (きせい), 省みる (かえり.みる), 省く (はぶ.く)
thick Details Story Dictionary 厚 thick My Story I have thick muscles because I used to climb that *cliff* 厂 every *day* 日 as a *child* 子. Koohii #1 In Sparta we throw our Children over a Cliff. Under the Sun, they fight other Children. In the end, if they survive, they sure have thick skin. Koohii #2 The thick cliff walls protected the children from the sun. Primitives thick, cliff, sun, day, child 厚かましい(あつかましい): impudent, shameless, brazen 厚い(あつい): thick, deep, cordial, kind, warm(hearted) Kunyomi: あつ.い、あか Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 厚い (あつ.い)	thick 厚 画数9 132 Details Story Dictionary 厚 thick My Story I have thick muscles because I used to climb that *cliff* 厂 every *day* 日 as a *child* 子. Koohii #1 In Sparta we throw our Children over a Cliff. Under the Sun, they fight other Children. In the end, if they survive, they sure have thick skin. Koohii #2 The thick cliff walls protected the children from the sun. Primitives thick, cliff, sun, day, child 厚かましい(あつかましい): impudent, shameless, brazen 厚い(あつい): thick, deep, cordial, kind, warm(hearted) Kunyomi: あつ.い、あか Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 厚い (あつ.い)
strange Details Story Dictionary 奇 strange My Story [Big + can {可}] *Big* things *can* be strange. A large 大 person walking down a small street 丁 with their mouth 口 wide open can 可 seem strange 奇. Koohii #1 I find it strange that so many people commit suicide in Tokyo by throwing themselves in front of the train. To me when I look at this kanji, I see a train just about to come out of a tunnel, and above the man waiting for his oppourtunity where he can end it all. Koohii #2 Imagine a ST. BERNARD DOG carrying a CAN instead of a barrel in rescue missions. How strange! Primitives strange, large, St. Bernard, can, mouth, street, nail, spike 奇数(きすう): odd number 奇麗(きれい): pretty, clean, nice, tidy, beautiful, fair 奇妙(きみょう): strange, queer, curious Kunyomi: く.しき、あや.しい、くし、めずら.しい Onyomi: キ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	strange 奇 画数8 133 Details Story Dictionary 奇 strange My Story [Big + can {可}] *Big* things *can* be strange. A large 大 person walking down a small street 丁 with their mouth 口 wide open can 可 seem strange 奇. Koohii #1 I find it strange that so many people commit suicide in Tokyo by throwing themselves in front of the train. To me when I look at this kanji, I see a train just about to come out of a tunnel, and above the man waiting for his oppourtunity where he can end it all. Koohii #2 Imagine a ST. BERNARD DOG carrying a CAN instead of a barrel in rescue missions. How strange! Primitives strange, large, St. Bernard, can, mouth, street, nail, spike 奇数(きすう): odd number 奇麗(きれい): pretty, clean, nice, tidy, beautiful, fair 奇妙(きみょう): strange, queer, curious Kunyomi: く.しき、あや.しい、くし、めずら.しい Onyomi: キ Lesson: 7 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
stream Details Story Dictionary 川 stream Heisig's We have taken the image of a river stream over into English to describe things that fall down in straight lines, or ripple along in lines. All of this is more than evident in the kanji given here, a pictograph of a stream. * As a primitive, this character adds to the meaning of stream the more vivid image of a flood. Note, however, that there are certain small changes in the writing of the element, depending on where it appears relative to other elements: on the left, it is written the same. on the top, it is written with the three strokes more like less-then signs on the bottom, it is written with the third stroke similar to a fishhook Koohii #1 So as not to confuse this with river (#146) think of streamers falling down. Koohii #2 There are three default I/O Streams in UNIX, stdin, stdout, and stderr. Primitives stream, flood 河川(かせん): rivers 川(かわ): river Kunyomi: かわ Onyomi: セン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 川 (かわ)	stream 川 画数3 134 Details Story Dictionary 川 stream Heisig's We have taken the image of a river stream over into English to describe things that fall down in straight lines, or ripple along in lines. All of this is more than evident in the kanji given here, a pictograph of a stream. * As a primitive, this character adds to the meaning of stream the more vivid image of a flood. Note, however, that there are certain small changes in the writing of the element, depending on where it appears relative to other elements: on the left, it is written the same. on the top, it is written with the three strokes more like less-then signs on the bottom, it is written with the third stroke similar to a fishhook Koohii #1 So as not to confuse this with river (#146) think of streamers falling down. Koohii #2 There are three default I/O Streams in UNIX, stdin, stdout, and stderr. Primitives stream, flood 河川(かせん): rivers 川(かわ): river Kunyomi: かわ Onyomi: セン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 川 (かわ)
"state Details Story Dictionary 州 state Heisig's Here we see drops of land (little islets) rising up out of a stream, creating a kind of sandbar or breakwater. Ever wonder how the state-line is drawn between states separated by a river? If there were little drops of land as in the kanji, there'd be nothing to it. Koohii #1 There were 3 little islands in the stream who all decided to set themselves up as independent states. Koohii #2 シュウ　The original meaning of this character was ""sandbar"", and for me this conjures up images of the Mississippi River, which is very wide with many sandbars and which was used to define the borders in ten American states. Picture Huck Finn and Tom Sawyer floating by state after state as they adventure down the mighty Mississippi, occasionally beaching their raft on sandbars. Primitives state, stream, flood, drops 州(しゅう): state, province Kunyomi: す Onyomi: シュウ、ス Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 州 (す)"	"state 州 画数6 135 Details Story Dictionary 州 state Heisig's Here we see drops of land (little islets) rising up out of a stream, creating a kind of sandbar or breakwater. Ever wonder how the state-line is drawn between states separated by a river? If there were little drops of land as in the kanji, there'd be nothing to it. Koohii #1 There were 3 little islands in the stream who all decided to set themselves up as independent states. Koohii #2 シュウ　The original meaning of this character was ""sandbar"", and for me this conjures up images of the Mississippi River, which is very wide with many sandbars and which was used to define the borders in ten American states. Picture Huck Finn and Tom Sawyer floating by state after state as they adventure down the mighty Mississippi, occasionally beaching their raft on sandbars. Primitives state, stream, flood, drops 州(しゅう): state, province Kunyomi: す Onyomi: シュウ、ス Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 州 (す)"
obey Details Story Dictionary 順 obey My Story To brainwash, flood the head with nonsense until they OBEY. A page 頁 of paper floating down the stream 川 will obey 順 the current. Koohii #1 Obey, Obey! says the brain-washing scientist as he sends a stream of orders to fill your head. Koohii #2 Obey the orders streaming down from head office. Primitives obey, stream, flood, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 手順(てじゅん): process, procedure, protocol 不順(ふじゅん): irregularity, unseasonableness 順(じゅん): order, turn 順々(じゅんじゅん): in order, in turn 順序(じゅんじょ): order, sequence, procedure 順調(じゅんちょう): favourable, doing well, O.K., all right 順番(じゅんばん): turn (in line), order of things 道順(みちじゅん): itinerary, route Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジュン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	obey 順 画数12 136 Details Story Dictionary 順 obey My Story To brainwash, flood the head with nonsense until they OBEY. A page 頁 of paper floating down the stream 川 will obey 順 the current. Koohii #1 Obey, Obey! says the brain-washing scientist as he sends a stream of orders to fill your head. Koohii #2 Obey the orders streaming down from head office. Primitives obey, stream, flood, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 手順(てじゅん): process, procedure, protocol 不順(ふじゅん): irregularity, unseasonableness 順(じゅん): order, turn 順々(じゅんじゅん): in order, in turn 順序(じゅんじょ): order, sequence, procedure 順調(じゅんちょう): favourable, doing well, O.K., all right 順番(じゅんばん): turn (in line), order of things 道順(みちじゅん): itinerary, route Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジュン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
"water Details Story Dictionary 水 water Heisig's This character, which looks a bit like a snowflake, is actually a pictograph of water - not any particular body of water or movement of water, but simply the generic name for water. Should you have any difficulty remembering it, simply think of a walking stick being dropped vertically into the water, sending droplets out in all four directions. Then all you need to learn is how to write it in proper order. * As a primitive, this character can keep its form, or it can be written with three drops to the left of another primitive. This latter, as we will see, is far more common. Koohii #1 The kanji for water is an abstract primitive itself, so unless one is willing to break down its etymological development, it should just simply be memorized by strokes; constructing a story is not necessarily useful unless it strongly denotes its shape (I find that Heisig´s story doesn´t do this). Koohii #2 For those having issues with this* ""A 7K foot pool of water"" Notice it looks like a 7, and a K. Might have to practice writing it a few times. Primitives water 大水(おおみず): flood 降水(こうすい): rainfall, precipitation 洪水(こうずい): flood 水気(すいき): moisture, dampness, vapor, dropsy, edema 水源(すいげん): source of river, fountainhead 水洗(すいせん): flushing 水田(すいでん): (water-filled) paddy field 水曜(すいよう): Wednesday 潜水(せんすい): diving 排水(はいすい): drainage 海水浴(かいすいよく): sea bathing, seawater bath 下水(げすい): drainage, sewage, ditch, gutter 香水(こうすい): perfume 水産(すいさん): marine products, fisheries 水準(すいじゅん): water level, level, standard 水蒸気(すいじょうき): water vapour, steam 水素(すいそ): hydrogen 水滴(すいてき): drop of water 水筒(すいとう): canteen, flask, water bottle 水分(すいぶん): moisture 水平(すいへい): water level, horizon 水平線(すいへいせん): horizon 淡水(たんすい): fresh water 断水(だんすい): water outage 地下水(ちかすい): underground water 噴水(ふんすい): water fountain 水泳(すいえい): swimming 水道(すいどう): water works 水曜日(すいようび): Wednesday 水(みず): water Kunyomi: みず、みず- Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 水 (みず)"	"water 水 画数4 137 Details Story Dictionary 水 water Heisig's This character, which looks a bit like a snowflake, is actually a pictograph of water - not any particular body of water or movement of water, but simply the generic name for water. Should you have any difficulty remembering it, simply think of a walking stick being dropped vertically into the water, sending droplets out in all four directions. Then all you need to learn is how to write it in proper order. * As a primitive, this character can keep its form, or it can be written with three drops to the left of another primitive. This latter, as we will see, is far more common. Koohii #1 The kanji for water is an abstract primitive itself, so unless one is willing to break down its etymological development, it should just simply be memorized by strokes; constructing a story is not necessarily useful unless it strongly denotes its shape (I find that Heisig´s story doesn´t do this). Koohii #2 For those having issues with this* ""A 7K foot pool of water"" Notice it looks like a 7, and a K. Might have to practice writing it a few times. Primitives water 大水(おおみず): flood 降水(こうすい): rainfall, precipitation 洪水(こうずい): flood 水気(すいき): moisture, dampness, vapor, dropsy, edema 水源(すいげん): source of river, fountainhead 水洗(すいせん): flushing 水田(すいでん): (water-filled) paddy field 水曜(すいよう): Wednesday 潜水(せんすい): diving 排水(はいすい): drainage 海水浴(かいすいよく): sea bathing, seawater bath 下水(げすい): drainage, sewage, ditch, gutter 香水(こうすい): perfume 水産(すいさん): marine products, fisheries 水準(すいじゅん): water level, level, standard 水蒸気(すいじょうき): water vapour, steam 水素(すいそ): hydrogen 水滴(すいてき): drop of water 水筒(すいとう): canteen, flask, water bottle 水分(すいぶん): moisture 水平(すいへい): water level, horizon 水平線(すいへいせん): horizon 淡水(たんすい): fresh water 断水(だんすい): water outage 地下水(ちかすい): underground water 噴水(ふんすい): water fountain 水泳(すいえい): swimming 水道(すいどう): water works 水曜日(すいようび): Wednesday 水(みず): water Kunyomi: みず、みず- Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 水 (みず)"
icicle Details Story Dictionary 氷 icicle My Story A drop in temperature turns water into an icicle. Koohii #1 Icicles start with 1 frozen drop of water. Koohii #2 A drop in temperature turns water into an icicle. Primitives icicle, drop, water 氷(こおり): ice Kunyomi: こおり、ひ、こお.る Onyomi: ヒョウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 氷 (こおり), 氷 (ひ)	icicle 氷 画数5 138 Details Story Dictionary 氷 icicle My Story A drop in temperature turns water into an icicle. Koohii #1 Icicles start with 1 frozen drop of water. Koohii #2 A drop in temperature turns water into an icicle. Primitives icicle, drop, water 氷(こおり): ice Kunyomi: こおり、ひ、こお.る Onyomi: ヒョウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 氷 (こおり), 氷 (ひ)
"eternity Details Story Dictionary 永 eternity Heisig's This kanji also uses the full form of water, though its meaning seems to have nothing at all to do with water. Remember what William Blake said about seeing ""infinity in a grain of sand and eternity in an hour""? Well, reading this character from top to bottom, we see ""eternity in a drop of water."" Koohii #1 It would take an eternity to count all the drops of water. Koohii #2 It takes but one drop from the most special water: the fountain of youth (and it is written in a special way to with an extra horizontal line on the top) to live for an eternity. (In order to remember that the drop is at the top, think that the drop must come from the topmost water in order for its effects to be true). Primitives eternity, drop, water 永遠(えいえん): eternity, perpetuity, immortality, permanence 永久(えいきゅう): eternity, perpetuity, immortality 永い(ながい): long, lengthy Kunyomi: なが.い Onyomi: エイ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 永い (なが.い)"	"eternity 永 画数5 139 Details Story Dictionary 永 eternity Heisig's This kanji also uses the full form of water, though its meaning seems to have nothing at all to do with water. Remember what William Blake said about seeing ""infinity in a grain of sand and eternity in an hour""? Well, reading this character from top to bottom, we see ""eternity in a drop of water."" Koohii #1 It would take an eternity to count all the drops of water. Koohii #2 It takes but one drop from the most special water: the fountain of youth (and it is written in a special way to with an extra horizontal line on the top) to live for an eternity. (In order to remember that the drop is at the top, think that the drop must come from the topmost water in order for its effects to be true). Primitives eternity, drop, water 永遠(えいえん): eternity, perpetuity, immortality, permanence 永久(えいきゅう): eternity, perpetuity, immortality 永い(ながい): long, lengthy Kunyomi: なが.い Onyomi: エイ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 永い (なが.い)"
"spring Details Story Dictionary 泉 spring Heisig's Call to mind the image of a fresh, bubbling spring of water, and you will probably notice how the top of the spring you are thinking of, the part where the ""bubbling"" goes on, is all white. Happily, the white is just where it should be, at the top, and the water is at the bottom. * We will keep this image of a spring when using this kanji as a primitive, but not without first drawing attention to a slight change that distinguishes the primitive from the kanji. The final 4 strokes (the element for water) are abbreviated to the three small drops that we learned earlier as the kanji for little. Koohii #1 White is a symbol of purety, so white water is pure water, the precise definition of spring water. Koohii #2 Perhaps the most common appearance of this kanji is in the word 温泉 (おんせん, onsen), a Japanese hot spring. The kanji is an excellent image of someone enjoying a Japanese hot spring: a little white towel on top, water below. (This helps keep all associations: spring, little and onsen). Primitives spring, white, dove, water 泉(いずみ): spring, fountain 温泉(おんせん): spa, hot spring Kunyomi: いずみ Onyomi: セン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 泉 (いずみ)"	"spring 泉 画数9 140 Details Story Dictionary 泉 spring Heisig's Call to mind the image of a fresh, bubbling spring of water, and you will probably notice how the top of the spring you are thinking of, the part where the ""bubbling"" goes on, is all white. Happily, the white is just where it should be, at the top, and the water is at the bottom. * We will keep this image of a spring when using this kanji as a primitive, but not without first drawing attention to a slight change that distinguishes the primitive from the kanji. The final 4 strokes (the element for water) are abbreviated to the three small drops that we learned earlier as the kanji for little. Koohii #1 White is a symbol of purety, so white water is pure water, the precise definition of spring water. Koohii #2 Perhaps the most common appearance of this kanji is in the word 温泉 (おんせん, onsen), a Japanese hot spring. The kanji is an excellent image of someone enjoying a Japanese hot spring: a little white towel on top, water below. (This helps keep all associations: spring, little and onsen). Primitives spring, white, dove, water 泉(いずみ): spring, fountain 温泉(おんせん): spa, hot spring Kunyomi: いずみ Onyomi: セン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 泉 (いずみ)"
gland Details Story Dictionary 腺 gland Heisig's Dig into your flesh and pull out a lymph gland. Now give it a squeeze and watch the spring of lymph spout out of it. Koohii #1 A body part that acts like a spring for hormones is a gland. Koohii #2 When adrenaline glands release hormones, the body springs into action. Primitives gland, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, spring, white, dove, water Kunyomi: Onyomi: セン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	gland 腺 画数13 141 Details Story Dictionary 腺 gland Heisig's Dig into your flesh and pull out a lymph gland. Now give it a squeeze and watch the spring of lymph spout out of it. Koohii #1 A body part that acts like a spring for hormones is a gland. Koohii #2 When adrenaline glands release hormones, the body springs into action. Primitives gland, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, spring, white, dove, water Kunyomi: Onyomi: セン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
"meadow Details Story Dictionary 原 meadow Heisig's Though the kanji is broad enough to embrace both meanings, the meadow you should imagine here is not a flatland plain but a mountain meadow in the Austrian Alps. (Perhaps the opening scene of ""The Sound of Music"" will help.) Simply think of little springs bubbling up across the meadow to form a sort of path that leads you right to the brink of a precipitous cliff. Now if you can see Schwester Maria skipping along merrily, dodging in and out of the springs, and then falling headlong over the cliff, you have a ridiculous story that should help fix this kanji in memory. Koohii #1 Follow the springs down the cliff and you will find a nice meadow. Koohii #2 Sorry about this, but Heisig was stupid calling this kanji meadow, used in composite words the most common meaning is ORIGIN... To remember just think that life may have begun in pounds or springs in a land with many cliffs ... Just to answer correctly the review lessons think of meadow as the origin of a huge forest. Primitives meadow, cliff, spring, white, dove, small, little 原油(げんゆ): crude oil 原(げん): original, primitive, primary, fundamental, raw 原形(げんけい): original form, base form 原作(げんさく): original work 原子(げんし): atom 原書(げんしょ): original document 原則(げんそく): principle, general rule 原典(げんてん): original (text) 原点(げんてん): origin (coordinates), starting point 原爆(げんばく): atomic bomb 原文(げんぶん): the text, original 高原(こうげん): tableland, plateau 原っぱ(はらっぱ): open field, empty lot, plain 原稿(げんこう): manuscript, copy 原産(げんさん): place of origin, habitat 原始(げんし): origin, primeval 原理(げんり): principle, theory, fundamental truth 原料(げんりょう): raw materials 原(はら): field, plain, prairie, tundra, moor, wilderness 原因(げんいん): cause Kunyomi: はら Onyomi: ゲン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 原 (はら)"	"meadow 原 画数10 142 Details Story Dictionary 原 meadow Heisig's Though the kanji is broad enough to embrace both meanings, the meadow you should imagine here is not a flatland plain but a mountain meadow in the Austrian Alps. (Perhaps the opening scene of ""The Sound of Music"" will help.) Simply think of little springs bubbling up across the meadow to form a sort of path that leads you right to the brink of a precipitous cliff. Now if you can see Schwester Maria skipping along merrily, dodging in and out of the springs, and then falling headlong over the cliff, you have a ridiculous story that should help fix this kanji in memory. Koohii #1 Follow the springs down the cliff and you will find a nice meadow. Koohii #2 Sorry about this, but Heisig was stupid calling this kanji meadow, used in composite words the most common meaning is ORIGIN... To remember just think that life may have begun in pounds or springs in a land with many cliffs ... Just to answer correctly the review lessons think of meadow as the origin of a huge forest. Primitives meadow, cliff, spring, white, dove, small, little 原油(げんゆ): crude oil 原(げん): original, primitive, primary, fundamental, raw 原形(げんけい): original form, base form 原作(げんさく): original work 原子(げんし): atom 原書(げんしょ): original document 原則(げんそく): principle, general rule 原典(げんてん): original (text) 原点(げんてん): origin (coordinates), starting point 原爆(げんばく): atomic bomb 原文(げんぶん): the text, original 高原(こうげん): tableland, plateau 原っぱ(はらっぱ): open field, empty lot, plain 原稿(げんこう): manuscript, copy 原産(げんさん): place of origin, habitat 原始(げんし): origin, primeval 原理(げんり): principle, theory, fundamental truth 原料(げんりょう): raw materials 原(はら): field, plain, prairie, tundra, moor, wilderness 原因(げんいん): cause Kunyomi: はら Onyomi: ゲン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 原 (はら)"
"petition / Wish / Beg Details Story Dictionary 願 petition / Wish / Beg My Story [meadow {原} + Head/Page {頁} ] Japanese hippies PETITION to save a *meadow* by getting people on the street to sign their *page* - as you pass by they call out: ""お願いします、おねがいします。”. Koohii #1 Let´s petition to save that beautiful MEADOW from overdevelopment by signing on this PAGE. Koohii #2 Japanese hippies PETITION to save a meadow by getting people on the street to sign their page - as you pass by they call out: ""お願いします、おねがいします。”. Primitives petition, meadow, cliff, white, dove, small, little, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight お願いします(おねがいします): please 願書(がんしょ): written application or petition 願い(ねがい): desire, wish, request, prayer, petition, application 願う(ねがう): to desire, wish, request, beg, hope, implore Kunyomi: ねが.う、-ねがい Onyomi: ガン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 願う (ねが.う)"	"petition / Wish / Beg 願 画数19 143 Details Story Dictionary 願 petition / Wish / Beg My Story [meadow {原} + Head/Page {頁} ] Japanese hippies PETITION to save a *meadow* by getting people on the street to sign their *page* - as you pass by they call out: ""お願いします、おねがいします。”. Koohii #1 Let´s petition to save that beautiful MEADOW from overdevelopment by signing on this PAGE. Koohii #2 Japanese hippies PETITION to save a meadow by getting people on the street to sign their page - as you pass by they call out: ""お願いします、おねがいします。”. Primitives petition, meadow, cliff, white, dove, small, little, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight お願いします(おねがいします): please 願書(がんしょ): written application or petition 願い(ねがい): desire, wish, request, prayer, petition, application 願う(ねがう): to desire, wish, request, beg, hope, implore Kunyomi: ねが.う、-ねがい Onyomi: ガン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 願う (ねが.う)"
swim Details Story Dictionary 泳 swim Heisig's The primitive to the left, you will recall from Frame 137, represents water. To the right, we see the kanji for eternity. Knowing how much children like swimming, what could be a better image of eternal bliss than an endless expanse of water to swim in without a care in the world? Koohii #1 With that much WATER (2 actually) you would need to swim for an ETERNITY. Koohii #2 If you don´t know how to swim, you´ll be in that water for eternity. Primitives swim, water, water droplets, water pistol, eternity 泳ぎ(およぎ): swimming 水泳(すいえい): swimming 泳ぐ(およぐ): swim Kunyomi: およ.ぐ Onyomi: エイ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 泳ぐ (およ.ぐ)	swim 泳 画数8 144 Details Story Dictionary 泳 swim Heisig's The primitive to the left, you will recall from Frame 137, represents water. To the right, we see the kanji for eternity. Knowing how much children like swimming, what could be a better image of eternal bliss than an endless expanse of water to swim in without a care in the world? Koohii #1 With that much WATER (2 actually) you would need to swim for an ETERNITY. Koohii #2 If you don´t know how to swim, you´ll be in that water for eternity. Primitives swim, water, water droplets, water pistol, eternity 泳ぎ(およぎ): swimming 水泳(すいえい): swimming 泳ぐ(およぐ): swim Kunyomi: およ.ぐ Onyomi: エイ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 泳ぐ (およ.ぐ)
marsh Details Story Dictionary 沼 marsh Heisig's Unlike the meadow with its cliffs, the marshlands are low and near a source of water that feeds them until they get soggy through and through. Why certain land becomes marshy is probably due to the fact that it felt thirsty, and so tried its best to seduce the water over to its side. But, like most inordinate seductions, the last state of the victim is worse than the first. Hence the slushy marsh. Koohii #1 The marshlands near Mordor seduce Frodo into gazing upon them, and he falls into the water--splash! Koohii #2 A marsh is where water is seduced into the ground. Primitives marsh, water, water droplets, water pistol, summon, seduce, sword, dagger, mouth 沼(ぬま): swamp, bog, pond, lake Kunyomi: ぬま Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 沼 (ぬま)	marsh 沼 画数8 145 Details Story Dictionary 沼 marsh Heisig's Unlike the meadow with its cliffs, the marshlands are low and near a source of water that feeds them until they get soggy through and through. Why certain land becomes marshy is probably due to the fact that it felt thirsty, and so tried its best to seduce the water over to its side. But, like most inordinate seductions, the last state of the victim is worse than the first. Hence the slushy marsh. Koohii #1 The marshlands near Mordor seduce Frodo into gazing upon them, and he falls into the water--splash! Koohii #2 A marsh is where water is seduced into the ground. Primitives marsh, water, water droplets, water pistol, summon, seduce, sword, dagger, mouth 沼(ぬま): swamp, bog, pond, lake Kunyomi: ぬま Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 沼 (ぬま)
"open sea Details Story Dictionary 沖 open sea Heisig's This kanji could hardly be simpler. The key word open sea readily suggests being out in the middle of a great body of water .Thinking of it in this way should avoid confusion with the kanji for ""open,"" which we will meet later on. Koohii #1 Open sea is a lot of water in the middle of nowhere. Koohii #2 Water in the middle of the ocean is referred to as open sea. Primitives open sea, water, water droplets, water pistol, in, stick, mouth 沖(おき): open sea Kunyomi: おき、おきつ、ちゅう.する、わく Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 沖 (おき)"	"open sea 沖 画数7 146 Details Story Dictionary 沖 open sea Heisig's This kanji could hardly be simpler. The key word open sea readily suggests being out in the middle of a great body of water .Thinking of it in this way should avoid confusion with the kanji for ""open,"" which we will meet later on. Koohii #1 Open sea is a lot of water in the middle of nowhere. Koohii #2 Water in the middle of the ocean is referred to as open sea. Primitives open sea, water, water droplets, water pistol, in, stick, mouth 沖(おき): open sea Kunyomi: おき、おきつ、ちゅう.する、わく Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 沖 (おき)"
"pan- Details Story Dictionary 汎 pan- Heisig's The sense of the key word here is the ""all-inclusive"" we find in terms like ""Pan-American Games."" (It is also the character used in mathematics for ""partial"" as in partial differentials, in case you are a math major and want to take your story in that direction.) Instead of a water sports event that brings together the best talent, think of a meet of the region's most mediocre athletes, many of whom cannot even tread water. Now try to find a sponsor for the ""Pan-Mediocre Water Sports Competition."" Koohii #1 Yeah, all our water is fairly mediocre, but if we work together in some pan-continental union, we can make some better water! As if. Koohii #2 This is pan- as in the prefix meaning ""all"". I think of Pangea as being a mediocre continent with water covering the rest of the planet. This was before it broke up into the first-class, well-distributed continents we got now. Primitives pan-, water, water droplets, water pistol, mediocre, wind, drop Kunyomi: ただよ.う、ひろ.い Onyomi: ハン、ブ、フウ、ホウ、ホン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"pan- 汎 画数6 147 Details Story Dictionary 汎 pan- Heisig's The sense of the key word here is the ""all-inclusive"" we find in terms like ""Pan-American Games."" (It is also the character used in mathematics for ""partial"" as in partial differentials, in case you are a math major and want to take your story in that direction.) Instead of a water sports event that brings together the best talent, think of a meet of the region's most mediocre athletes, many of whom cannot even tread water. Now try to find a sponsor for the ""Pan-Mediocre Water Sports Competition."" Koohii #1 Yeah, all our water is fairly mediocre, but if we work together in some pan-continental union, we can make some better water! As if. Koohii #2 This is pan- as in the prefix meaning ""all"". I think of Pangea as being a mediocre continent with water covering the rest of the planet. This was before it broke up into the first-class, well-distributed continents we got now. Primitives pan-, water, water droplets, water pistol, mediocre, wind, drop Kunyomi: ただよ.う、ひろ.い Onyomi: ハン、ブ、フウ、ホウ、ホン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
creek Details Story Dictionary 江 creek Heisig's Unlike the river, the ocean, the lake, and the pond, the creek is often no more then a dribble of water trickling down a small gully. While the geological history of the larger bodies of water is hard to surmise sometimes, all of us know from our childhood how creeks are made. You probably even dug one or two in your time. All you need to do is find a mainstream of water somewhere and dig a little path into dry land. The creek is thus a lesson in water-craft, as this kanji would agree. Koohii #1 A CREEK is a small trail of water easily crafted with a stick. Koohii #2 Creeks are small water, easily crossed with a simple i-beam. Primitives creek, water, water droplets, water pistol, craft Kunyomi: え Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 江 (え)	creek 江 画数6 148 Details Story Dictionary 江 creek Heisig's Unlike the river, the ocean, the lake, and the pond, the creek is often no more then a dribble of water trickling down a small gully. While the geological history of the larger bodies of water is hard to surmise sometimes, all of us know from our childhood how creeks are made. You probably even dug one or two in your time. All you need to do is find a mainstream of water somewhere and dig a little path into dry land. The creek is thus a lesson in water-craft, as this kanji would agree. Koohii #1 A CREEK is a small trail of water easily crafted with a stick. Koohii #2 Creeks are small water, easily crossed with a simple i-beam. Primitives creek, water, water droplets, water pistol, craft Kunyomi: え Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 江 (え)
"cleanse Details Story Dictionary 汰 cleanse Heisig's This character can mean both to cleanse and to make dirty. We will choose the latter and imagine someone who is displeasingly plump going to a skinny spa whose medicinal waters promise to cleanse him of his unwanted corpulence. Picture him sitting in the spa as the pounds melt away, leaving a greasy scum on top of the water. Koohii #1 I couldn´t find any reference to this kanji as meaning cleanse. It seems to be most often used in the following compound 沙汰（さた）to mean affair. The other meanings seem to be closer to ´select´ so maybe Heisig meant cleanse in the ethnic sense here.. I´m going to use the keyword ""selection"", as in natural selection. Story: natural selection first began in the water, and those that were too plump were selected out. Koohii #2 Water is used to cleanse a plump man´s colon. Primitives cleanse, water, water droplets, water pistol, plump, large, St. Bernard, drop ご無沙汰(ごぶさた): not writing or contacting for a while 無沙汰(ぶさた): neglecting to stay in contact Kunyomi: おご.る、にご.る、よな.げる Onyomi: タ、タイ Lesson: Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"cleanse 汰 画数 149 Details Story Dictionary 汰 cleanse Heisig's This character can mean both to cleanse and to make dirty. We will choose the latter and imagine someone who is displeasingly plump going to a skinny spa whose medicinal waters promise to cleanse him of his unwanted corpulence. Picture him sitting in the spa as the pounds melt away, leaving a greasy scum on top of the water. Koohii #1 I couldn´t find any reference to this kanji as meaning cleanse. It seems to be most often used in the following compound 沙汰（さた）to mean affair. The other meanings seem to be closer to ´select´ so maybe Heisig meant cleanse in the ethnic sense here.. I´m going to use the keyword ""selection"", as in natural selection. Story: natural selection first began in the water, and those that were too plump were selected out. Koohii #2 Water is used to cleanse a plump man´s colon. Primitives cleanse, water, water droplets, water pistol, plump, large, St. Bernard, drop ご無沙汰(ごぶさた): not writing or contacting for a while 無沙汰(ぶさた): neglecting to stay in contact Kunyomi: おご.る、にご.る、よな.げる Onyomi: タ、タイ Lesson: Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"soup Details Story Dictionary 汁 soup Heisig's To make soup, one begins with water and then starts adding things to it, often leftovers from the icebox. This is how the thick soup or stew called ""seven-in-one"" is made. This kanji does it three better, giving us a ten-ingredient soup. Koohii #1 To make soup you just take water and add (+) the rest of your ingredients. Koohii #2 To make soup you just take water and add ten tasty ingredients. Primitives soup, water, water droplets, water pistol, ten, needle 汁(しる): juice, sap, soup, broth Kunyomi: しる、-しる、つゆ Onyomi: ジュウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 汁 (しる)"	"soup 汁 画数5 150 Details Story Dictionary 汁 soup Heisig's To make soup, one begins with water and then starts adding things to it, often leftovers from the icebox. This is how the thick soup or stew called ""seven-in-one"" is made. This kanji does it three better, giving us a ten-ingredient soup. Koohii #1 To make soup you just take water and add (+) the rest of your ingredients. Koohii #2 To make soup you just take water and add ten tasty ingredients. Primitives soup, water, water droplets, water pistol, ten, needle 汁(しる): juice, sap, soup, broth Kunyomi: しる、-しる、つゆ Onyomi: ジュウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 汁 (しる)"
"grains of sand Details Story Dictionary 沙 grains of sand Heisig's We have already learned the kanji for sand (Frame 122), so let's use it to remember the character for grains of sand. Instead of the ""few stones"" that make for nice sand, here we have a few drops of water, one for each grand of sand - a beach in perfect ecological balance. Koohii #1 Wet sand is simply sand but to see beautiful grains of sand, the water must be few. Koohii #2 Near the water is one of the few places you will find grains of sand. Primitives grains of sand, water, water droplets, water pistol, few ご無沙汰(ごぶさた): not writing or contacting for a while 無沙汰(ぶさた): neglecting to stay in contact Kunyomi: すな、よなげる Onyomi: サ、シャ Lesson: Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"grains of sand 沙 画数 151 Details Story Dictionary 沙 grains of sand Heisig's We have already learned the kanji for sand (Frame 122), so let's use it to remember the character for grains of sand. Instead of the ""few stones"" that make for nice sand, here we have a few drops of water, one for each grand of sand - a beach in perfect ecological balance. Koohii #1 Wet sand is simply sand but to see beautiful grains of sand, the water must be few. Koohii #2 Near the water is one of the few places you will find grains of sand. Primitives grains of sand, water, water droplets, water pistol, few ご無沙汰(ごぶさた): not writing or contacting for a while 無沙汰(ぶさた): neglecting to stay in contact Kunyomi: すな、よなげる Onyomi: サ、シャ Lesson: Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
tide Details Story Dictionary 潮 tide Heisig's Before we get to explaining this character, take a look at it and see if you can figure out the primitive elements on your own.... On the left is the water - that much is easy. On the right we have only one primitive, the kanji for morning learned back in Frame 53. See how an apparently complex kanji falls apart neatly into manageable pieces? To get the meaning of the key word tide, just think of it in connection with the character for eventide that we learned back in Frame 115. Here we have the morning-tide, its complement. By the way, if you missed the question about the number of primitives, it is probably because you forgot what we said earlier about kanji becoming primitives, independently of the pieces that make them up. As a rule, look for the largest kanji you can write and proceed from there to primitives stranded on their own. Koohii #1 The morning tide is basically, well, WATER in the MORNING. Koohii #2 This is not the eventide, but the water of the morning tide. Primitives tide, water, water droplets, water pistol, morning , mist, ten, needle, early, sun, day, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, ten2, needle2 潮(うしお): tide Kunyomi: しお、うしお Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 潮 (しお)	tide 潮 画数15 152 Details Story Dictionary 潮 tide Heisig's Before we get to explaining this character, take a look at it and see if you can figure out the primitive elements on your own.... On the left is the water - that much is easy. On the right we have only one primitive, the kanji for morning learned back in Frame 53. See how an apparently complex kanji falls apart neatly into manageable pieces? To get the meaning of the key word tide, just think of it in connection with the character for eventide that we learned back in Frame 115. Here we have the morning-tide, its complement. By the way, if you missed the question about the number of primitives, it is probably because you forgot what we said earlier about kanji becoming primitives, independently of the pieces that make them up. As a rule, look for the largest kanji you can write and proceed from there to primitives stranded on their own. Koohii #1 The morning tide is basically, well, WATER in the MORNING. Koohii #2 This is not the eventide, but the water of the morning tide. Primitives tide, water, water droplets, water pistol, morning , mist, ten, needle, early, sun, day, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, ten2, needle2 潮(うしお): tide Kunyomi: しお、うしお Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 潮 (しお)
"source Details Story Dictionary 源 source Heisig's With the advice of the last frame in mind, it is easy to see water and meadow in this character for source. Both in its etymology (it has a common parent with the word ""surge"") and in popular usage, source suggests the place water comes from. In this kanji, it is under the meadow, where we just saw it breaking the surface in those bubbly little springs. Koohii #1 The water that flows from the meadow is the source of life for the wild antelope. Koohii #2 The source of clean water is from the meadow (#134): it comes from that spring at the bottom of the cliff. Pay no attention to Julie Andrews lying face down in spring. The water´s clean. Trust me. Primitives source, water, water droplets, water pistol, meadow, cliff, sun, day, small, little 起源(きげん): origin, beginning, rise 語源(ごげん): word root, word derivation, etymology 財源(ざいげん): source of funds, resources, finances 水源(すいげん): source of river, fountainhead 電源(でんげん): source of electricity, power (button on TV etc.) 源(みなもと): source, origin 資源(しげん): resources Kunyomi: みなもと Onyomi: ゲン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 源 (みなもと)"	"source 源 画数13 153 Details Story Dictionary 源 source Heisig's With the advice of the last frame in mind, it is easy to see water and meadow in this character for source. Both in its etymology (it has a common parent with the word ""surge"") and in popular usage, source suggests the place water comes from. In this kanji, it is under the meadow, where we just saw it breaking the surface in those bubbly little springs. Koohii #1 The water that flows from the meadow is the source of life for the wild antelope. Koohii #2 The source of clean water is from the meadow (#134): it comes from that spring at the bottom of the cliff. Pay no attention to Julie Andrews lying face down in spring. The water´s clean. Trust me. Primitives source, water, water droplets, water pistol, meadow, cliff, sun, day, small, little 起源(きげん): origin, beginning, rise 語源(ごげん): word root, word derivation, etymology 財源(ざいげん): source of funds, resources, finances 水源(すいげん): source of river, fountainhead 電源(でんげん): source of electricity, power (button on TV etc.) 源(みなもと): source, origin 資源(しげん): resources Kunyomi: みなもと Onyomi: ゲン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 源 (みなもと)"
"lively Details Story Dictionary 活 lively My Story 氵 (“water”) + 舌 (“tongue”) Water comes off the lively speaker's tongue. Koohii #1 Conversations can become more lively after everyone has had a few drinks. It´s because ""watery tongues"" loosen lips! Koohii #2 I´m sure I can get her pretty lively and wet using my tongue. Primitives lively, water, water droplets, water pistol, tongue, drop, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 活ける(いける): to arrange (flowers) 活発(かっぱつ): vigor, active 生活(せいかつ): living, life (one´s daily existence), livelihood 復活(ふっかつ): revival (e.g. musical), restoration 活気(かっき): energy, liveliness 活字(かつじ): printing type 活動(かつどう): action, activity 活躍(かつやく): activity 活用(かつよう): conjugation, practical use 活力(かつりょく): vitality, energy Kunyomi: い.きる、い.かす、い.ける Onyomi: カツ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"lively 活 画数9 154 Details Story Dictionary 活 lively My Story 氵 (“water”) + 舌 (“tongue”) Water comes off the lively speaker's tongue. Koohii #1 Conversations can become more lively after everyone has had a few drinks. It´s because ""watery tongues"" loosen lips! Koohii #2 I´m sure I can get her pretty lively and wet using my tongue. Primitives lively, water, water droplets, water pistol, tongue, drop, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 活ける(いける): to arrange (flowers) 活発(かっぱつ): vigor, active 生活(せいかつ): living, life (one´s daily existence), livelihood 復活(ふっかつ): revival (e.g. musical), restoration 活気(かっき): energy, liveliness 活字(かつじ): printing type 活動(かつどう): action, activity 活躍(かつやく): activity 活用(かつよう): conjugation, practical use 活力(かつりょく): vitality, energy Kunyomi: い.きる、い.かす、い.ける Onyomi: カツ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
extinguish Details Story Dictionary 消 extinguish Heisig's Among the many things water is useful for is extinguishing fires, and that is just what we have here. First of all, take the water at the left as the drops of water that are used to depict water in general. In the best of all possible worlds, the most efficient way to extinguish a fire would be to see that each drop of water hits one spark of the conflagration. An unthinkable bit of utopian fire fighting, you say to yourself, but helpful for assigning this key word its primitives. Koohii #1 To extinguish a SPARK, you need WATER. Koohii #2 You need a few drops of water to extinguish the candle. Primitives extinguish, water, water droplets, water pistol, resemblance, spark, candle, small, little, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 打ち消し(うちけし): negation, denial, negative 消去(しょうきょ): elimination, erasing, dying out, melting away 消耗(しょうこう): exhaustion, consumption 消息(しょうそく): news, letter, circumstances 打ち消す(うちけす): deny, negate, contradict 消しゴム(けしゴム): eraser, India rubber 消化(しょうか): digestion 消極的(しょうきょくてき): passive 消毒(しょうどく): disinfection, sterilization 消費(しょうひ): consumption, expenditure 消防(しょうぼう): fire fighting, fire department 消防署(しょうぼうしょ): fire station 消耗(しょうもう): exhaustion, consumption 取り消す(とりけす): cancel 消える(きえる): go out, vanish, disappear 消す(けす): erase, delete, turn off power Kunyomi: き.える、け.す Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 消える (き.える), 消す (け.す)	extinguish 消 画数10 155 Details Story Dictionary 消 extinguish Heisig's Among the many things water is useful for is extinguishing fires, and that is just what we have here. First of all, take the water at the left as the drops of water that are used to depict water in general. In the best of all possible worlds, the most efficient way to extinguish a fire would be to see that each drop of water hits one spark of the conflagration. An unthinkable bit of utopian fire fighting, you say to yourself, but helpful for assigning this key word its primitives. Koohii #1 To extinguish a SPARK, you need WATER. Koohii #2 You need a few drops of water to extinguish the candle. Primitives extinguish, water, water droplets, water pistol, resemblance, spark, candle, small, little, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 打ち消し(うちけし): negation, denial, negative 消去(しょうきょ): elimination, erasing, dying out, melting away 消耗(しょうこう): exhaustion, consumption 消息(しょうそく): news, letter, circumstances 打ち消す(うちけす): deny, negate, contradict 消しゴム(けしゴム): eraser, India rubber 消化(しょうか): digestion 消極的(しょうきょくてき): passive 消毒(しょうどく): disinfection, sterilization 消費(しょうひ): consumption, expenditure 消防(しょうぼう): fire fighting, fire department 消防署(しょうぼうしょ): fire station 消耗(しょうもう): exhaustion, consumption 取り消す(とりけす): cancel 消える(きえる): go out, vanish, disappear 消す(けす): erase, delete, turn off power Kunyomi: き.える、け.す Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 消える (き.える), 消す (け.す)
"but of course Details Story Dictionary 況 but of course Heisig's This key word is a connector used to link contrasting phrase sand sentences together with much the same flavor as the English phrase but of course. Just picture yourself ready to go off on your first date as a teenager, and having your mother grill you about your manners and ask you embarrassing questions about your hygiene. ""Did you have a good shower?"" ""But of course,"" you reply, annoyed. So water and teenager combine to give us but of course. Koohii #1 If you ask your teenager if what he´s drinking is water (and not Vodka), he will answer ""but of course"". Koohii #2 キョウ But of course, this character really means ""situation/condition"". ""Elder brother gulped some water and said, ´What the hell was Heisig´s mental CONDITION when he came up with this definition? Heisig must have a drinking CONDITION. But of course, if Heisig sticks to water, rather than sake (like me, water quaffing, situation assessing, sober elder brother), his SITUATION may improve.´""　[MODEL COMPOUND: 状況　(じょうきょう)　state of affairs; conditions]. Primitives but of course, water, water droplets, water pistol, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs 好況(こうきょう): prosperous conditions, healthy economy 不況(ふきょう): recession, depression, slump 況して(まして): still more, still less (with neg. verb), to say nothing of, not to mention 状況(じょうきょう): state of affairs (around you), situation, circumstances Kunyomi: まし.て、いわ.んや、おもむき Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"but of course 況 画数8 156 Details Story Dictionary 況 but of course Heisig's This key word is a connector used to link contrasting phrase sand sentences together with much the same flavor as the English phrase but of course. Just picture yourself ready to go off on your first date as a teenager, and having your mother grill you about your manners and ask you embarrassing questions about your hygiene. ""Did you have a good shower?"" ""But of course,"" you reply, annoyed. So water and teenager combine to give us but of course. Koohii #1 If you ask your teenager if what he´s drinking is water (and not Vodka), he will answer ""but of course"". Koohii #2 キョウ But of course, this character really means ""situation/condition"". ""Elder brother gulped some water and said, ´What the hell was Heisig´s mental CONDITION when he came up with this definition? Heisig must have a drinking CONDITION. But of course, if Heisig sticks to water, rather than sake (like me, water quaffing, situation assessing, sober elder brother), his SITUATION may improve.´""　[MODEL COMPOUND: 状況　(じょうきょう)　state of affairs; conditions]. Primitives but of course, water, water droplets, water pistol, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs 好況(こうきょう): prosperous conditions, healthy economy 不況(ふきょう): recession, depression, slump 況して(まして): still more, still less (with neg. verb), to say nothing of, not to mention 状況(じょうきょう): state of affairs (around you), situation, circumstances Kunyomi: まし.て、いわ.んや、おもむき Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
"river Details Story Dictionary 河 river Heisig's The character in this frame represents a step up from the stream we met in Frame 134; it is a full-sized river. The water to the left tells us what we are dealing with, and the can at the right tells us that our ""little engine that could"" has now become amphibious and is chugging down the Mighty Mississip' like a regular riverboat. Koohii #1 A river CAN exist only if there is WATER. Koohii #2 I kept confusing this with stream. My Japanese friend said that to him this is for an artificial river. Looking at kanji compounds with this there are two that struck me: One is the Yellow River in China (黄河), and the other is the Milky Way (銀河). Now I either think of the Little Engine that could dragging a bunch of stuff down a river in China and polluting it (so it turned yellow) or I see the Little Engine that Could flying across the sky making the Milky Way. Primitives river, water, water droplets, water pistol, can, street, nail, spike, mouth 河川(かせん): rivers 運河(うんが): canal 河(かわ): river, stream Kunyomi: かわ Onyomi: カ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 河 (かわ)"	"river 河 画数8 157 Details Story Dictionary 河 river Heisig's The character in this frame represents a step up from the stream we met in Frame 134; it is a full-sized river. The water to the left tells us what we are dealing with, and the can at the right tells us that our ""little engine that could"" has now become amphibious and is chugging down the Mighty Mississip' like a regular riverboat. Koohii #1 A river CAN exist only if there is WATER. Koohii #2 I kept confusing this with stream. My Japanese friend said that to him this is for an artificial river. Looking at kanji compounds with this there are two that struck me: One is the Yellow River in China (黄河), and the other is the Milky Way (銀河). Now I either think of the Little Engine that could dragging a bunch of stuff down a river in China and polluting it (so it turned yellow) or I see the Little Engine that Could flying across the sky making the Milky Way. Primitives river, water, water droplets, water pistol, can, street, nail, spike, mouth 河川(かせん): rivers 運河(うんが): canal 河(かわ): river, stream Kunyomi: かわ Onyomi: カ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 河 (かわ)"
overnight Details Story Dictionary 泊 overnight Heisig's When you stop at an inn for an overnight rest, all you expect is a bit of water for a wash and a set of clean white sheets to wrap your weary bones in. Koohii #1 Please supply a guest who stays overnight with WATER and WHITE sheets. Koohii #2 When I go to an OVERNIGHT party, all I need is a bit of water and some of that hard white. (crack). (not really, but come on. much easier to recall than white sheets). Primitives overnight, water, water droplets, water pistol, white, dove 泊(はく): counter for nights of a stay 宿泊(しゅくはく): lodging 泊まる(とまる): stay at (e.g. hotel) 泊める(とめる): stay Kunyomi: と.まる、と.める Onyomi: ハク Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 泊まる (と.まる), 泊める (と.める)	overnight 泊 画数8 158 Details Story Dictionary 泊 overnight Heisig's When you stop at an inn for an overnight rest, all you expect is a bit of water for a wash and a set of clean white sheets to wrap your weary bones in. Koohii #1 Please supply a guest who stays overnight with WATER and WHITE sheets. Koohii #2 When I go to an OVERNIGHT party, all I need is a bit of water and some of that hard white. (crack). (not really, but come on. much easier to recall than white sheets). Primitives overnight, water, water droplets, water pistol, white, dove 泊(はく): counter for nights of a stay 宿泊(しゅくはく): lodging 泊まる(とまる): stay at (e.g. hotel) 泊める(とめる): stay Kunyomi: と.まる、と.める Onyomi: ハク Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 泊まる (と.まる), 泊める (と.める)
lake Details Story Dictionary 湖 lake Heisig's Water . . . old . . . flesh. You have heard of legends of people being abandoned in the mountains when they had become too old to work. Well, here is a legend about people being set adrift in the waters of a stormy lake because their flesh had gotten too old to bear the burdens of life. Koohii #1 This is my favorite story. Simply associate the sad moment of an OLD person, standing near the WATER of the lake and looking at the MOON reflected in the lake. The created primitives themselves are put so beautifully, that you will not forget this kanji. Koohii #2 Water reflects the old moon in the lake. Primitives lake, water, water droplets, water pistol, uncivilized, zombie, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 湖(みずうみ): lake Kunyomi: みずうみ Onyomi: コ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 湖 (みずうみ)	lake 湖 画数12 159 Details Story Dictionary 湖 lake Heisig's Water . . . old . . . flesh. You have heard of legends of people being abandoned in the mountains when they had become too old to work. Well, here is a legend about people being set adrift in the waters of a stormy lake because their flesh had gotten too old to bear the burdens of life. Koohii #1 This is my favorite story. Simply associate the sad moment of an OLD person, standing near the WATER of the lake and looking at the MOON reflected in the lake. The created primitives themselves are put so beautifully, that you will not forget this kanji. Koohii #2 Water reflects the old moon in the lake. Primitives lake, water, water droplets, water pistol, uncivilized, zombie, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 湖(みずうみ): lake Kunyomi: みずうみ Onyomi: コ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 湖 (みずうみ)
"fathom Details Story Dictionary 測 fathom Heisig's Connoting the measurement of the depth of water, the keyword fathom begins with the water primitive. To its right, we see the compound-primitive for rule (Frame 92) which we learned in the sense of a ""ruler"" or ""measure."" Hence, when we rule water we fathom it. What could be simpler? But be careful; its simplicity is deceptive. Be sure to picture yourself fathoming a body of water several hundred feet deep by using a ruler of gargantuan proportions. Koohii #1 A fathom is the unit you use when making rules about water´s depth. Koohii #2 You can´t fathom how deep this water is. Perhaps you should use a ruler to measure it? Primitives fathom, water, water droplets, water pistol, rule, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, sword, sabre, saber 推測(すいそく): guess, conjecture 測る(はかる): to measure, to weigh, to survey, to time (sound gauge estimate) 観測(かんそく): observation 測定(そくてい): measurement 測量(そくりょう): measurement, surveying 予測(よそく): prediction, estimation Kunyomi: はか.る Onyomi: ソク Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 測る (はか.る)"	"fathom 測 画数12 160 Details Story Dictionary 測 fathom Heisig's Connoting the measurement of the depth of water, the keyword fathom begins with the water primitive. To its right, we see the compound-primitive for rule (Frame 92) which we learned in the sense of a ""ruler"" or ""measure."" Hence, when we rule water we fathom it. What could be simpler? But be careful; its simplicity is deceptive. Be sure to picture yourself fathoming a body of water several hundred feet deep by using a ruler of gargantuan proportions. Koohii #1 A fathom is the unit you use when making rules about water´s depth. Koohii #2 You can´t fathom how deep this water is. Perhaps you should use a ruler to measure it? Primitives fathom, water, water droplets, water pistol, rule, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, sword, sabre, saber 推測(すいそく): guess, conjecture 測る(はかる): to measure, to weigh, to survey, to time (sound gauge estimate) 観測(かんそく): observation 測定(そくてい): measurement 測量(そくりょう): measurement, surveying 予測(よそく): prediction, estimation Kunyomi: はか.る Onyomi: ソク Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 測る (はか.る)"
soil Details Story Dictionary 土 soil Heisig's I don't like it any more than you do, but this kanji is not the pictograph it is trumped up to be: a mound of soil piled on the ground. All I can recommend is that you memorize it as it is. Anyway, it will be occurring with such frequency that you have almost no chance of forgetting it, even if you try. * As a primitive, the sense of soil is extended to that of ground because of its connection with the kanji for the same (Frame 554). From there it also takes the added meanings of dirt and land. Koohii #1 Remembering soil is easy. If soil is soft, you can take a walking stick and plunge it two* feet into the ground. Koohii #2 King Arthur pulled the magical sword Excalibur out of the hardened soil to claim his place as king. Primitives soil, dirt, ground 国土(こくど): realm 土産(どさん): product of the land 土台(どだい): foundation, base, basis 土手(どて): embankment, bank 土俵(どひょう): arena 土木(どぼく): public works 土曜(どよう): Saturday 風土(ふうど): natural features, topography, climate, spiritual features 領土(りょうど): dominion, territory, possession 土(つち): earth, soil 土地(とち): plot of land, lot, soil 土産(みやげ): product of the land お土産(おみやげ): souvenir 土曜日(どようび): Saturday Kunyomi: つち Onyomi: ド、ト Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 土木 (どぼく), 国土 (こくど), 粘土 (ねんど), 土 (つち)	soil 土 画数3 161 Details Story Dictionary 土 soil Heisig's I don't like it any more than you do, but this kanji is not the pictograph it is trumped up to be: a mound of soil piled on the ground. All I can recommend is that you memorize it as it is. Anyway, it will be occurring with such frequency that you have almost no chance of forgetting it, even if you try. * As a primitive, the sense of soil is extended to that of ground because of its connection with the kanji for the same (Frame 554). From there it also takes the added meanings of dirt and land. Koohii #1 Remembering soil is easy. If soil is soft, you can take a walking stick and plunge it two* feet into the ground. Koohii #2 King Arthur pulled the magical sword Excalibur out of the hardened soil to claim his place as king. Primitives soil, dirt, ground 国土(こくど): realm 土産(どさん): product of the land 土台(どだい): foundation, base, basis 土手(どて): embankment, bank 土俵(どひょう): arena 土木(どぼく): public works 土曜(どよう): Saturday 風土(ふうど): natural features, topography, climate, spiritual features 領土(りょうど): dominion, territory, possession 土(つち): earth, soil 土地(とち): plot of land, lot, soil 土産(みやげ): product of the land お土産(おみやげ): souvenir 土曜日(どようび): Saturday Kunyomi: つち Onyomi: ド、ト Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 土木 (どぼく), 国土 (こくど), 粘土 (ねんど), 土 (つち)
spit Details Story Dictionary 吐 spit Heisig's We have here a rather small mouth (it is always compressed when set on the left) next to a much larger piece of dirt. It is not hard to imagine what you might do if you got a mouth full of dirt. As least I know what I would do: spit it out as fast and far as I could! Koohii #1 The only things that come out of my MOUTH and onto the GROUND are spit and vomit. Everything else (words, song) floats on the air. Koohii #2 SPIT goes from my MOUTH to the GROUND. Primitives spit, mouth, soil, dirt, ground 吐く(つく): to breathe, to tell (lies), to vomit, to disgorge 吐き気(はきけ): nausea, sickness in the stomach 吐く(はく): breathe, tell (lies), vomit Kunyomi: は.く、つ.く Onyomi: ト Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 吐く (は.く)	spit 吐 画数6 162 Details Story Dictionary 吐 spit Heisig's We have here a rather small mouth (it is always compressed when set on the left) next to a much larger piece of dirt. It is not hard to imagine what you might do if you got a mouth full of dirt. As least I know what I would do: spit it out as fast and far as I could! Koohii #1 The only things that come out of my MOUTH and onto the GROUND are spit and vomit. Everything else (words, song) floats on the air. Koohii #2 SPIT goes from my MOUTH to the GROUND. Primitives spit, mouth, soil, dirt, ground 吐く(つく): to breathe, to tell (lies), to vomit, to disgorge 吐き気(はきけ): nausea, sickness in the stomach 吐く(はく): breathe, tell (lies), vomit Kunyomi: は.く、つ.く Onyomi: ト Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 吐く (は.く)
pressure Details Story Dictionary 圧 pressure Heisig's One of the things that causes the erosion of soil is the excessive pressure of the topsoil on the lower soil. This can be caused by any number of things from heavy rainfall to heavy buildings to the absence of sufficient deep-rooted vegetation to hold the layers together. Here we see a steep cliff without a tree in sight. The slightest pressure on it will cause a landslide, which, with a little help from your imagination, you will be able to see happening in this character. Koohii #1 The GROUND at the base of a CLIFF must suffer from enormous pressure. Koohii #2 For physics people: p = F/A (p:pressure, F:Force, A:Area). Where the force is from the immensity of the cliff. The area on the cliff is covered by soil. So the equation becomes p = F/A = cliff/soil which preserves the position of the primitives. Primitives pressure, cliff, soil, dirt, ground 圧迫(あっぱく): pressure, coercion, oppression 圧力(あつりょく): stress, pressure 抑圧(よくあつ): check, restraint, oppression, suppression 圧縮(あっしゅく): compression, condensation, pressure 気圧(きあつ): atmospheric pressure 血圧(けつあつ): blood pressure Kunyomi: お.す、へ.す、おさ.える、お.さえる Onyomi: アツ、エン、オウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	pressure 圧 画数5 163 Details Story Dictionary 圧 pressure Heisig's One of the things that causes the erosion of soil is the excessive pressure of the topsoil on the lower soil. This can be caused by any number of things from heavy rainfall to heavy buildings to the absence of sufficient deep-rooted vegetation to hold the layers together. Here we see a steep cliff without a tree in sight. The slightest pressure on it will cause a landslide, which, with a little help from your imagination, you will be able to see happening in this character. Koohii #1 The GROUND at the base of a CLIFF must suffer from enormous pressure. Koohii #2 For physics people: p = F/A (p:pressure, F:Force, A:Area). Where the force is from the immensity of the cliff. The area on the cliff is covered by soil. So the equation becomes p = F/A = cliff/soil which preserves the position of the primitives. Primitives pressure, cliff, soil, dirt, ground 圧迫(あっぱく): pressure, coercion, oppression 圧力(あつりょく): stress, pressure 抑圧(よくあつ): check, restraint, oppression, suppression 圧縮(あっしゅく): compression, condensation, pressure 気圧(きあつ): atmospheric pressure 血圧(けつあつ): blood pressure Kunyomi: お.す、へ.す、おさ.える、お.さえる Onyomi: アツ、エン、オウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
"cape Details Story Dictionary 埼 cape Heisig's The cape pictured here is a jut of land like Cape Cod. The soil on the left tells us we have to do with land, and the strange on the right tells us it is a cape where unusual things go on. Put a haunted house on it, an eerie sky overhead, and a howling wind rustling through the trees, and you have yourself a picture of Cape Strange (or, if you prefer, Cape Odd). Koohii #1 This refers to LAND, not the STRANGE gear superheroes wear. Koohii #2 Cape Cod ""odd"" is a land where odd=strange things happen. Primitives cape, soil, dirt, ground, strange, large, St. Bernard, street, nail, spike, mouth Kunyomi: さき、さい、みさき Onyomi: キ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 埼 (さい)"	"cape 埼 画数11 164 Details Story Dictionary 埼 cape Heisig's The cape pictured here is a jut of land like Cape Cod. The soil on the left tells us we have to do with land, and the strange on the right tells us it is a cape where unusual things go on. Put a haunted house on it, an eerie sky overhead, and a howling wind rustling through the trees, and you have yourself a picture of Cape Strange (or, if you prefer, Cape Odd). Koohii #1 This refers to LAND, not the STRANGE gear superheroes wear. Koohii #2 Cape Cod ""odd"" is a land where odd=strange things happen. Primitives cape, soil, dirt, ground, strange, large, St. Bernard, street, nail, spike, mouth Kunyomi: さき、さい、みさき Onyomi: キ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 埼 (さい)"
hedge Details Story Dictionary 垣 hedge Heisig's The hedge depicted in this frame is the miraculous hedge of briar roses that completely spanned the castle grounds in which Sleeping Beauty lay for a hundred years, so that none but her predestined beloved could find his way through it. Koohii #1 Before the Great Wall of China, there was a dirt hedge that spanned across. Koohii #2 The HEDGE of roses growing from the castle grounds fully spanned the castle walls. Primitives hedge, soil, dirt, ground, span, one, ceiling, sun, day, one, floor, one 垣根(かきね): hedge Kunyomi: かき Onyomi: エン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 垣 (かき)	hedge 垣 画数9 165 Details Story Dictionary 垣 hedge Heisig's The hedge depicted in this frame is the miraculous hedge of briar roses that completely spanned the castle grounds in which Sleeping Beauty lay for a hundred years, so that none but her predestined beloved could find his way through it. Koohii #1 Before the Great Wall of China, there was a dirt hedge that spanned across. Koohii #2 The HEDGE of roses growing from the castle grounds fully spanned the castle walls. Primitives hedge, soil, dirt, ground, span, one, ceiling, sun, day, one, floor, one 垣根(かきね): hedge Kunyomi: かき Onyomi: エン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 垣 (かき)
inlay Details Story Dictionary 填 inlay Heisig's When we hear the world inlay, we usually think of setting precious stones in pieces of jewelery, but the primitive elements here suggest truth being inlaid in the soil. You might think instead of the cosmic wisdom that inlaid the truth of the universe in the stuff of the earth. Koohii #1 In a hole in the ground, the body of the victim was placed. And then the killer stuffed it up so that the truth would not be found out, he hoped. Koohii #2 I stuffed up his mouth with dirt to keep the truth from coming out. Primitives stuff up, soil, dirt, ground, true, truth, ten, needle, eye, tool, one, animal legs, eight 填まる(はまる): to get into, to go into, to fit, to be fit for, to suit, to fall into, to plunge into, to be deceived, to be taken in, to fall into a trap, to be addicted to, to be deep into 填める(はめる): to get in, to insert, to put on, to make love Kunyomi: は.まる、は.める、うず.める、しず.める、ふさ.ぐ Onyomi: テン、チン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	inlay 填 画数13 166 Details Story Dictionary 填 inlay Heisig's When we hear the world inlay, we usually think of setting precious stones in pieces of jewelery, but the primitive elements here suggest truth being inlaid in the soil. You might think instead of the cosmic wisdom that inlaid the truth of the universe in the stuff of the earth. Koohii #1 In a hole in the ground, the body of the victim was placed. And then the killer stuffed it up so that the truth would not be found out, he hoped. Koohii #2 I stuffed up his mouth with dirt to keep the truth from coming out. Primitives stuff up, soil, dirt, ground, true, truth, ten, needle, eye, tool, one, animal legs, eight 填まる(はまる): to get into, to go into, to fit, to be fit for, to suit, to fall into, to plunge into, to be deceived, to be taken in, to fall into a trap, to be addicted to, to be deep into 填める(はめる): to get in, to insert, to put on, to make love Kunyomi: は.まる、は.める、うず.める、しず.める、ふさ.ぐ Onyomi: テン、チン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
"squared jewel Details Story Dictionary 圭 squared jewel Heisig's Now I am going to do something unusual. The character in this frame is going to get one meaning and the primitive another, with no relation at all between the two. In time, I hope you will see how helpful this is. The kanji key word, square jewel, depicts a mammoth precious stone, several feet high, made by piling up large heaps of soil on top of one another. Not something you would want to present your betrothed on your wedding day, but a good image for remembering this rare character, used chiefly in personal names nowadays. * As a primitive, we shall use this character to mean ivy, that creepy vegetation that covers the surface of the ground to form a sort of ""second"" ground that can get somewhat tricky to walk on without tripping. Koohii #1 Piling SOIL upon SOIL for aeons is how SQUARE JEWELS are formed deep in the earth. Koohii #2 How would you stop someone stealing your biggest square jewel? Bury it deep in the soil under ground. Then plant ivy to mark the spot. Primitives square jewel, ivy, soil, dirt, ground, soil2, dirt2, ground2 Kunyomi: Onyomi: ケイ、ケ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"squared jewel 圭 画数6 167 Details Story Dictionary 圭 squared jewel Heisig's Now I am going to do something unusual. The character in this frame is going to get one meaning and the primitive another, with no relation at all between the two. In time, I hope you will see how helpful this is. The kanji key word, square jewel, depicts a mammoth precious stone, several feet high, made by piling up large heaps of soil on top of one another. Not something you would want to present your betrothed on your wedding day, but a good image for remembering this rare character, used chiefly in personal names nowadays. * As a primitive, we shall use this character to mean ivy, that creepy vegetation that covers the surface of the ground to form a sort of ""second"" ground that can get somewhat tricky to walk on without tripping. Koohii #1 Piling SOIL upon SOIL for aeons is how SQUARE JEWELS are formed deep in the earth. Koohii #2 How would you stop someone stealing your biggest square jewel? Bury it deep in the soil under ground. Then plant ivy to mark the spot. Primitives square jewel, ivy, soil, dirt, ground, soil2, dirt2, ground2 Kunyomi: Onyomi: ケイ、ケ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
seal Details Story Dictionary 封 seal Heisig's Think of the key word seal as referring to a letter you have written and are preparing to close. Instead of using the traditional wax seal, you glue a sprig of ivy on the outside. In this way the elements ivy and glue give you a curious and memorable way to seal your secret letters. Koohii #1 The king used a special seal of ivy leaves glued onto his document. Koohii #2 A bit of ivy glued to a letter can make a lovely SEAL when in a pinch, says Martha Stewart. Primitives seal, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, glue, soil2, dirt2, ground2 同封(どうふう): enclosure (e.g. in a letter) 封(ふう): seal 封鎖(ふうさ): blockade, freezing (funds) 封建(ほうけん): feudalistic 封筒(ふうとう): envelope Kunyomi: Onyomi: フウ、ホウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 封鎖 (ふうさ), 封書 (ふうしょ), 密封 (みっぷう)	seal 封 画数9 168 Details Story Dictionary 封 seal Heisig's Think of the key word seal as referring to a letter you have written and are preparing to close. Instead of using the traditional wax seal, you glue a sprig of ivy on the outside. In this way the elements ivy and glue give you a curious and memorable way to seal your secret letters. Koohii #1 The king used a special seal of ivy leaves glued onto his document. Koohii #2 A bit of ivy glued to a letter can make a lovely SEAL when in a pinch, says Martha Stewart. Primitives seal, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, glue, soil2, dirt2, ground2 同封(どうふう): enclosure (e.g. in a letter) 封(ふう): seal 封鎖(ふうさ): blockade, freezing (funds) 封建(ほうけん): feudalistic 封筒(ふうとう): envelope Kunyomi: Onyomi: フウ、ホウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 封鎖 (ふうさ), 封書 (ふうしょ), 密封 (みっぷう)
"horizon Details Story Dictionary 涯 horizon Heisig's After seeing a constant horizon of water, water everywhere for months at sea, could there be anything more delightful to the eyes than to look astern and see the ivy-clad cliffs of land on a new horizon? Of course, you'd need the eyes of a stellar telescope to recognize that the vegetation was in fact ivy, but the phrase ""ivy-clad cliffs"" has such a nice ring to it that we won't worry about such details. Koohii #1 Try to reverse Heisig´s story in this Kanji: imagine being trapped in one of those prison towers on an ivy cladcliff like in the movies. From your prison ontop the ivy clad cliff all you can see in the distant horizon is nothing but water. Koohii #2 From the water, I can see the ivy-clad-cliffs on the horizon. Primitives horizon, water, water droplets, water pistol, cliff, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, soil2, dirt2, ground2 Kunyomi: はて Onyomi: ガイ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"horizon 涯 画数11 169 Details Story Dictionary 涯 horizon Heisig's After seeing a constant horizon of water, water everywhere for months at sea, could there be anything more delightful to the eyes than to look astern and see the ivy-clad cliffs of land on a new horizon? Of course, you'd need the eyes of a stellar telescope to recognize that the vegetation was in fact ivy, but the phrase ""ivy-clad cliffs"" has such a nice ring to it that we won't worry about such details. Koohii #1 Try to reverse Heisig´s story in this Kanji: imagine being trapped in one of those prison towers on an ivy cladcliff like in the movies. From your prison ontop the ivy clad cliff all you can see in the distant horizon is nothing but water. Koohii #2 From the water, I can see the ivy-clad-cliffs on the horizon. Primitives horizon, water, water droplets, water pistol, cliff, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, soil2, dirt2, ground2 Kunyomi: はて Onyomi: ガイ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"Buddhist temple Details Story Dictionary 寺 Buddhist temple Heisig's You have heard of people ""attaching"" themselves to a particular sect? Here is your chance to take that metaphor literally and imagine some fellow walking into a Buddhist temple with a fervent resolve to attach himself to the place. Since there is plenty of unused land around the precincts, he simply picks out a suitable patch, brushes the soles of his feet with glue, steps down firmly, and so joins the Buddhist temple as a ""permanent member."" Koohii #1 At the Buddhist temple the monks are seated on the ground, glued there in meditation. Koohii #2 To be allowed to join the Buddhist temple, imagine an aspiring monk being asked to stand still in the soil for a long time in a measurement of his resolve. Primitives buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue 寺院(じいん): temple 寺(てら): temple Kunyomi: てら Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 寺 (てら)"	"Buddhist temple 寺 画数6 170 Details Story Dictionary 寺 Buddhist temple Heisig's You have heard of people ""attaching"" themselves to a particular sect? Here is your chance to take that metaphor literally and imagine some fellow walking into a Buddhist temple with a fervent resolve to attach himself to the place. Since there is plenty of unused land around the precincts, he simply picks out a suitable patch, brushes the soles of his feet with glue, steps down firmly, and so joins the Buddhist temple as a ""permanent member."" Koohii #1 At the Buddhist temple the monks are seated on the ground, glued there in meditation. Koohii #2 To be allowed to join the Buddhist temple, imagine an aspiring monk being asked to stand still in the soil for a long time in a measurement of his resolve. Primitives buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue 寺院(じいん): temple 寺(てら): temple Kunyomi: てら Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 寺 (てら)"
"time Details Story Dictionary 時 time Heisig's ""What is time?"" asked St. Augustine in his memoirs. ""Ask me not, and I know. Ask me, and I cannot tell you."" Here we have the kanji's answer to that perennial riddle. Time is a sun rising over a Buddhist temple. It sounds almost like a Zen kōan whose repetition might yield some deep secret to the initiated. At any rate, imagining a monk seated in meditation pondering it might help us remember the character. Koohii #1 When the SUN starts to shine on the TEMPLE, it´s time to get up. Koohii #2 In ancient Japan, TIME of ´´day´´ was announced at the ´´buddhist temples´´. They did this by ringing large iron bells. This is similar to churches who ring their bells to announce the time of day. Primitives time, sun, day, Buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue 何時(いつ): when, how soon 何時か(いつか): sometime, some day 何時でも(いつでも): (at) any time, always, at all times, never (neg), whenever 何時の間にか(いつのまにか): before one knows, unnoticed, unawares 何時も(いつも): always, usually, every time, never (with neg. verb) 時刻表(じこくひょう): table, diagram, chart, timetable, schedule 時差(じさ): time difference 時折(ときおり): sometimes 一時(いちじ): one hour, short time, once, temporarily, at one time 時間割(じかんわり): timetable, schedule 時期(じき): time, season, period 時刻(じこく): instant, time, moment 時速(じそく): speed (per hour) 当時(とうじ): at that time, in those days 同時(どうじ): simultaneous(ly), concurrent, same time, synchronous 時(とき): time, hour, occasion, moment 日時(にちじ): date and time 臨時(りんじ): temporary, special, extraordinary 時代(じだい): age, period, generation 時間(じかん): time 時々(ときどき): sometimes 時計(とけい): watch, clock Kunyomi: とき、-どき Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 時 (とき)"	"time 時 画数10 171 Details Story Dictionary 時 time Heisig's ""What is time?"" asked St. Augustine in his memoirs. ""Ask me not, and I know. Ask me, and I cannot tell you."" Here we have the kanji's answer to that perennial riddle. Time is a sun rising over a Buddhist temple. It sounds almost like a Zen kōan whose repetition might yield some deep secret to the initiated. At any rate, imagining a monk seated in meditation pondering it might help us remember the character. Koohii #1 When the SUN starts to shine on the TEMPLE, it´s time to get up. Koohii #2 In ancient Japan, TIME of ´´day´´ was announced at the ´´buddhist temples´´. They did this by ringing large iron bells. This is similar to churches who ring their bells to announce the time of day. Primitives time, sun, day, Buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue 何時(いつ): when, how soon 何時か(いつか): sometime, some day 何時でも(いつでも): (at) any time, always, at all times, never (neg), whenever 何時の間にか(いつのまにか): before one knows, unnoticed, unawares 何時も(いつも): always, usually, every time, never (with neg. verb) 時刻表(じこくひょう): table, diagram, chart, timetable, schedule 時差(じさ): time difference 時折(ときおり): sometimes 一時(いちじ): one hour, short time, once, temporarily, at one time 時間割(じかんわり): timetable, schedule 時期(じき): time, season, period 時刻(じこく): instant, time, moment 時速(じそく): speed (per hour) 当時(とうじ): at that time, in those days 同時(どうじ): simultaneous(ly), concurrent, same time, synchronous 時(とき): time, hour, occasion, moment 日時(にちじ): date and time 臨時(りんじ): temporary, special, extraordinary 時代(じだい): age, period, generation 時間(じかん): time 時々(ときどき): sometimes 時計(とけい): watch, clock Kunyomi: とき、-どき Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 時 (とき)"
average/level Details Story Dictionary 均 average/level My Story [Jesus + equal] Koohii #1 Soil is scooped up into a ladel. The extra drop is brushed off to make it level. Koohii #2 To remember the extra stroke in the ladle, make a vivid image of a big drop of excess soil fr0m the ladle falling out onto the ground when you level it. Primitives level, soil, dirt, ground, ladle, drop, drop2 均衡(きんこう): equilibrium, balance 平均(ならし): equilibrium, balance, average, mean 平均(へいきん): equilibrium, balance, average, mean Kunyomi: なら.す Onyomi: キン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	average/level 均 画数7 172 Details Story Dictionary 均 average/level My Story [Jesus + equal] Koohii #1 Soil is scooped up into a ladel. The extra drop is brushed off to make it level. Koohii #2 To remember the extra stroke in the ladle, make a vivid image of a big drop of excess soil fr0m the ladle falling out onto the ground when you level it. Primitives level, soil, dirt, ground, ladle, drop, drop2 均衡(きんこう): equilibrium, balance 平均(ならし): equilibrium, balance, average, mean 平均(へいきん): equilibrium, balance, average, mean Kunyomi: なら.す Onyomi: キン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
fire Details Story Dictionary 火 fire Heisig's Just as sitting before a fire enlivens the imagination and lets you see almost anything you want to in the flames, this kanji is so simple it lets you see almost any sort of fire you want to see. It no longer makes a good pictograph, but I invite you to take a pencil and paper and play with the form - first writing it as shown below and then adding lines here and there - to see what you can come up with. Everything from matchbooks to cigarette lighters to volcanic eruptions to the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah have been found here. No doubt you, too, will find something interesting to bend your memory around these four simple strokes. * To avoid confusion later on, it is best to keep to the meaning of a fireplace (or hearth) or a raging conflagration like a forest fire for this kanji's primitive meaning. Another primitive element for fire, based on this one, is written as 4 small drops and will mean flames, cauldron, cooking fire, or an oven fire. Koohii #1 For some reason, this kanji reminds me of a person running, her arms (the two drops) raised up, because she caught on fire! Koohii #2 A tepee getting shot at by fire arrows. Primitives fire 火傷(かしょう): burn, scald 火星(かせい): Mars (planet) 火曜(かよう): Tuesday 火燵(こたつ): table with heater, (orig) charcoal brazier in a floor well 下火(したび): burning low, waning, declining 焚火(たきび): (open) fire 点火(てんか): ignition, lighting, set fire to 火花(ひばな): spark 防火(ぼうか): fire prevention, fire fighting, fire proof 火口(かこう): crater 火災(かさい): conflagration, fire 火山(かざん): volcano 花火(はなび): fireworks 噴火(ふんか): eruption 火傷(やけど): burn, scald 火事(かじ): fire 火(ひ): fire 火曜日(かようび): Tuesday Kunyomi: ひ、-び、ほ- Onyomi: カ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 火 (ひ)	fire 火 画数4 173 Details Story Dictionary 火 fire Heisig's Just as sitting before a fire enlivens the imagination and lets you see almost anything you want to in the flames, this kanji is so simple it lets you see almost any sort of fire you want to see. It no longer makes a good pictograph, but I invite you to take a pencil and paper and play with the form - first writing it as shown below and then adding lines here and there - to see what you can come up with. Everything from matchbooks to cigarette lighters to volcanic eruptions to the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah have been found here. No doubt you, too, will find something interesting to bend your memory around these four simple strokes. * To avoid confusion later on, it is best to keep to the meaning of a fireplace (or hearth) or a raging conflagration like a forest fire for this kanji's primitive meaning. Another primitive element for fire, based on this one, is written as 4 small drops and will mean flames, cauldron, cooking fire, or an oven fire. Koohii #1 For some reason, this kanji reminds me of a person running, her arms (the two drops) raised up, because she caught on fire! Koohii #2 A tepee getting shot at by fire arrows. Primitives fire 火傷(かしょう): burn, scald 火星(かせい): Mars (planet) 火曜(かよう): Tuesday 火燵(こたつ): table with heater, (orig) charcoal brazier in a floor well 下火(したび): burning low, waning, declining 焚火(たきび): (open) fire 点火(てんか): ignition, lighting, set fire to 火花(ひばな): spark 防火(ぼうか): fire prevention, fire fighting, fire proof 火口(かこう): crater 火災(かさい): conflagration, fire 火山(かざん): volcano 花火(はなび): fireworks 噴火(ふんか): eruption 火傷(やけど): burn, scald 火事(かじ): fire 火(ひ): fire 火曜日(かようび): Tuesday Kunyomi: ひ、-び、ほ- Onyomi: カ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 火 (ひ)
inflammation Details Story Dictionary 炎 inflammation Heisig's A fire belongs IN the hearth, not OVER it. When the fire spreads to the rest of the house, we have an inflamed house. And as with any inflammation - including those that attack our bodies - the danger is always that it might spread if not checked. This is the sense behind the reduplication of element for fire, one atop the other. Koohii #1 To fight fire with fire would just inflame a situation. Koohii #2 An inflammation can often feel like FIRE upon FIRE burning. Primitives inflammation, fire, fire2 炎(ほのお): flame, blaze Kunyomi: ほのお Onyomi: エン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 炎 (ほのお)	inflammation 炎 画数8 174 Details Story Dictionary 炎 inflammation Heisig's A fire belongs IN the hearth, not OVER it. When the fire spreads to the rest of the house, we have an inflamed house. And as with any inflammation - including those that attack our bodies - the danger is always that it might spread if not checked. This is the sense behind the reduplication of element for fire, one atop the other. Koohii #1 To fight fire with fire would just inflame a situation. Koohii #2 An inflammation can often feel like FIRE upon FIRE burning. Primitives inflammation, fire, fire2 炎(ほのお): flame, blaze Kunyomi: ほのお Onyomi: エン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 炎 (ほのお)
"anxiety Details Story Dictionary 煩 anxiety Heisig's The existential condition of anxiety that arises from the inevitable frustration of our worldly passions is contained in this character. The head is set afire, causing deep torment of spirit (and a whopper of a headache). Koohii #1 An anxiety feels like FIRE in the HEAD. Koohii #2 Many performers get ""Michael Jackson anxiety"" wherein they fear their head will catch on fire. Primitives anxiety, fire, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 煩わしい(わずらわしい): troublesome, annoying, complicated Kunyomi: わずら.う、わずら.わす Onyomi: ハン、ボン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 煩雑 (はんざつ), 煩う (わずら.う), 煩わす (わずら.わす)"	"anxiety 煩 画数13 175 Details Story Dictionary 煩 anxiety Heisig's The existential condition of anxiety that arises from the inevitable frustration of our worldly passions is contained in this character. The head is set afire, causing deep torment of spirit (and a whopper of a headache). Koohii #1 An anxiety feels like FIRE in the HEAD. Koohii #2 Many performers get ""Michael Jackson anxiety"" wherein they fear their head will catch on fire. Primitives anxiety, fire, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 煩わしい(わずらわしい): troublesome, annoying, complicated Kunyomi: わずら.う、わずら.わす Onyomi: ハン、ボン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 煩雑 (はんざつ), 煩う (わずら.う), 煩わす (わずら.わす)"
thin Details Story Dictionary 淡 thin Heisig's The primitives in this kanji read: water . . . inflammation. Taking inflammation in its medical sense, the first water-related inflammation that pops into mind is dehydration, the principal symptom of which is that it makes one shrivel up and look very, very thin. If that is hard to remember, try thinking it backwards: a very thin chap passes by and you imagine him suffering from (being inflamed with) dehydration (hence the element for water). Koohii #1 Drink water and burn twice as many calories as you eat... you´ll definitely get thin. Imagine inside your body, all those calories literally being burned from above and below... THAT´s what it takes to become thin. Koohii #2 Thin girls are twice as hot when they´re wet. Primitives thin, water, water droplets, water pistol, inflammation, fire, fire2 冷淡(れいたん): coolness, indifference 淡水(たんすい): fresh water Kunyomi: あわ.い Onyomi: タン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 淡い (あわ.い)	thin 淡 画数11 176 Details Story Dictionary 淡 thin Heisig's The primitives in this kanji read: water . . . inflammation. Taking inflammation in its medical sense, the first water-related inflammation that pops into mind is dehydration, the principal symptom of which is that it makes one shrivel up and look very, very thin. If that is hard to remember, try thinking it backwards: a very thin chap passes by and you imagine him suffering from (being inflamed with) dehydration (hence the element for water). Koohii #1 Drink water and burn twice as many calories as you eat... you´ll definitely get thin. Imagine inside your body, all those calories literally being burned from above and below... THAT´s what it takes to become thin. Koohii #2 Thin girls are twice as hot when they´re wet. Primitives thin, water, water droplets, water pistol, inflammation, fire, fire2 冷淡(れいたん): coolness, indifference 淡水(たんすい): fresh water Kunyomi: あわ.い Onyomi: タン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 淡い (あわ.い)
lamp Details Story Dictionary 灯 lamp Heisig's Since it is very hard to read by the fireplace without going blind from the flickering of the flames or burning up from the heat, our ancestors invented a way to nail down a bit of that fire, just enough to light up the text of their evening newspapers and no more. Voilà! The lamp. Koohii #1 Imagine old gas lamps which had a flame to light up the street signs. Koohii #2 A lamp is fire you can hang from a nail. Primitives lamp, fire, street, nail, spike 灯(ともしび): light 蛍光灯(けいこうとう): fluorescent lamp, person who is slow to react 灯台(とうだい): lighthouse 灯油(とうゆ): lamp oil, kerosene 灯(ひ): light 電灯(でんとう): light Kunyomi: ひ、ほ-、ともしび、とも.す、あかり Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 灯 (ひ)	lamp 灯 画数6 177 Details Story Dictionary 灯 lamp Heisig's Since it is very hard to read by the fireplace without going blind from the flickering of the flames or burning up from the heat, our ancestors invented a way to nail down a bit of that fire, just enough to light up the text of their evening newspapers and no more. Voilà! The lamp. Koohii #1 Imagine old gas lamps which had a flame to light up the street signs. Koohii #2 A lamp is fire you can hang from a nail. Primitives lamp, fire, street, nail, spike 灯(ともしび): light 蛍光灯(けいこうとう): fluorescent lamp, person who is slow to react 灯台(とうだい): lighthouse 灯油(とうゆ): lamp oil, kerosene 灯(ひ): light 電灯(でんとう): light Kunyomi: ひ、ほ-、ともしび、とも.す、あかり Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 灯 (ひ)
farm Details Story Dictionary 畑 farm Heisig's Looking at the primitives, a fireplace and a rice field, we find the essential ingredients for a farm: a warm hearth to sit by at night, and a well-plowed field to grow one's crops in by day. Koohii #1 Many farms are created by first setting FIRE over the land to clear the land for the FIELDS. Koohii #2 When creating a farm, the prospective farmer must first set fire to the forest to clear the ground. Only then can he plow the fields. Fire before fields to make a farm. Primitives farm, fire, rice field, brains 畑(はたけ): field Kunyomi: はた、はたけ、-ばたけ Onyomi: Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: Compounds: 畑 (はた), 畑 (はたけ)	farm 畑 画数9 178 Details Story Dictionary 畑 farm Heisig's Looking at the primitives, a fireplace and a rice field, we find the essential ingredients for a farm: a warm hearth to sit by at night, and a well-plowed field to grow one's crops in by day. Koohii #1 Many farms are created by first setting FIRE over the land to clear the land for the FIELDS. Koohii #2 When creating a farm, the prospective farmer must first set fire to the forest to clear the ground. Only then can he plow the fields. Fire before fields to make a farm. Primitives farm, fire, rice field, brains 畑(はたけ): field Kunyomi: はた、はたけ、-ばたけ Onyomi: Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: Compounds: 畑 (はた), 畑 (はたけ)
disaster Details Story Dictionary 災 disaster Heisig's Of all of nature's disasters, this kanji picks out two of the worst: floods and fires. To recall the disposition of the elements, think of nature's solution to nature's own problem: a great flood pouring down over a great forest fire. Koohii #1 What a disaster! First a FIRE, then on top of it came FLOODs. Koohii #2 Don´t know about Japan, but here in Australia, flooding rivers and bushfires are the most common natural disasters. Primitives disaster, stream, flood, fire 災害(さいがい): calamity, disaster, misfortune 戦災(せんさい): war damage 天災(てんさい): natural calamity, disaster 火災(かさい): conflagration, fire 災難(さいなん): calamity, misfortune Kunyomi: わざわ.い Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 災い (わざわ.い)	disaster 災 画数7 179 Details Story Dictionary 災 disaster Heisig's Of all of nature's disasters, this kanji picks out two of the worst: floods and fires. To recall the disposition of the elements, think of nature's solution to nature's own problem: a great flood pouring down over a great forest fire. Koohii #1 What a disaster! First a FIRE, then on top of it came FLOODs. Koohii #2 Don´t know about Japan, but here in Australia, flooding rivers and bushfires are the most common natural disasters. Primitives disaster, stream, flood, fire 災害(さいがい): calamity, disaster, misfortune 戦災(せんさい): war damage 天災(てんさい): natural calamity, disaster 火災(かさい): conflagration, fire 災難(さいなん): calamity, misfortune Kunyomi: わざわ.い Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 災い (わざわ.い)
"ashes Details Story Dictionary 灰 ashes Heisig's The kanji for ashes naturally includes the primitive for fire, or more specifically, a fireplace. Now what do you do with that bucket of ashes you have just cleaned out of the fireplace? You walk to the edge of a cliff and tip it upside down, watching as they are swept away in the wind like a swarm of gray mosquitoes. Thus the fire, once it has turned to ashes, ends up at the bottom of the cliff. Koohii #1 The fire underneath the cliff will eventually turn everything above to ashes. Koohii #2 Scene from ""The Big Lebowski"" : Walter scatters Donny´s ashes, but a wind blows much of the ashes into ""The Dude"" Lebowski´s face. Upset, The Dude lashes out at Walter. Walter apologizes and hugs The Dude, before suggesting ""Fuck it, man. Let´s go bowling."" I bet you that The Dude wanted to cremate (fire) Walter right there and then, at the top of the cliff! (thanks Elktapestry). Primitives ashes, cliff, fire 灰(あく): puckery juice 灰皿(はいさら): ashtray 灰(はい): ash 灰色(はいいろ): grey, ashen 灰皿(はいざら): ashtray Kunyomi: はい Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 灰 (はい)"	"ashes 灰 画数6 180 Details Story Dictionary 灰 ashes Heisig's The kanji for ashes naturally includes the primitive for fire, or more specifically, a fireplace. Now what do you do with that bucket of ashes you have just cleaned out of the fireplace? You walk to the edge of a cliff and tip it upside down, watching as they are swept away in the wind like a swarm of gray mosquitoes. Thus the fire, once it has turned to ashes, ends up at the bottom of the cliff. Koohii #1 The fire underneath the cliff will eventually turn everything above to ashes. Koohii #2 Scene from ""The Big Lebowski"" : Walter scatters Donny´s ashes, but a wind blows much of the ashes into ""The Dude"" Lebowski´s face. Upset, The Dude lashes out at Walter. Walter apologizes and hugs The Dude, before suggesting ""Fuck it, man. Let´s go bowling."" I bet you that The Dude wanted to cremate (fire) Walter right there and then, at the top of the cliff! (thanks Elktapestry). Primitives ashes, cliff, fire 灰(あく): puckery juice 灰皿(はいさら): ashtray 灰(はい): ash 灰色(はいいろ): grey, ashen 灰皿(はいざら): ashtray Kunyomi: はい Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 灰 (はい)"
spot Details Story Dictionary 点 spot Heisig's If you look into the flickering of a fire for a long time and then turn aside, you will see spots before your eyes. Although nobody ever thought of such a thing before - as least as far as know, they didn't - imagine using those spots as a technique for fortune-telling. The old witch sits before her cauldron and watches the spots that show up when she turns to look at you, and from that tells your fortune. Think of it as a kind of spot-check on your future. Koohii #1 The FORTUNE TELLER was burned by FLAMES on the spot because she was accused of being a witch. Koohii #2 You have to stimulate the G-spot with your magic wand in order to get her on fire. Or you can juste use your mouth... Primitives spot, fortune-telling, magic wand, augury, mouth, oven-fire, barbecue 観点(かんてん): point of view 起点(きてん): starting point 原点(げんてん): origin (coordinates), starting point 減点(げんてん): subtract, give a demerit 視点(してん): opinion, point of view, visual point 点く(つく): be lit, catch fire 点火(てんか): ignition, lighting, set fire to 点検(てんけん): inspection, examination, checking 点線(てんせん): dotted line, perforated line 得点(とくてん): score, points made, marks obtained, runs 盲点(もうてん): blind spot 利点(りてん): advantage, point in favor 句読点(くとうてん): punctuation marks 欠点(けってん): faults, defect, weakness 交差点(こうさてん): crossing, intersection 採点(さいてん): marking, grading, looking over 弱点(じゃくてん): weak point, weakness 終点(しゅうてん): terminus, last stop (e.g train) 重点(じゅうてん): important point, lay stress on, emphasis, colon 焦点(しょうてん): focus, point 地点(ちてん): site, point on a map 頂点(ちょうてん): top, summit 点ける(つける): turn on, switch on, light up 点数(てんすう): marks, points, score, number of items, credits 点々(てんてん): here and there, little by little, sporadically, scattered in drops, dot, spot 満点(まんてん): perfect score 要点(ようてん): gist, main point 零点(れいてん): zero, no marks 点(てん): point, mark, grade Kunyomi: つ.ける、つ.く、た.てる、さ.す、とぼ.す、とも.す、ぼち Onyomi: テン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	spot 点 画数9 181 Details Story Dictionary 点 spot Heisig's If you look into the flickering of a fire for a long time and then turn aside, you will see spots before your eyes. Although nobody ever thought of such a thing before - as least as far as know, they didn't - imagine using those spots as a technique for fortune-telling. The old witch sits before her cauldron and watches the spots that show up when she turns to look at you, and from that tells your fortune. Think of it as a kind of spot-check on your future. Koohii #1 The FORTUNE TELLER was burned by FLAMES on the spot because she was accused of being a witch. Koohii #2 You have to stimulate the G-spot with your magic wand in order to get her on fire. Or you can juste use your mouth... Primitives spot, fortune-telling, magic wand, augury, mouth, oven-fire, barbecue 観点(かんてん): point of view 起点(きてん): starting point 原点(げんてん): origin (coordinates), starting point 減点(げんてん): subtract, give a demerit 視点(してん): opinion, point of view, visual point 点く(つく): be lit, catch fire 点火(てんか): ignition, lighting, set fire to 点検(てんけん): inspection, examination, checking 点線(てんせん): dotted line, perforated line 得点(とくてん): score, points made, marks obtained, runs 盲点(もうてん): blind spot 利点(りてん): advantage, point in favor 句読点(くとうてん): punctuation marks 欠点(けってん): faults, defect, weakness 交差点(こうさてん): crossing, intersection 採点(さいてん): marking, grading, looking over 弱点(じゃくてん): weak point, weakness 終点(しゅうてん): terminus, last stop (e.g train) 重点(じゅうてん): important point, lay stress on, emphasis, colon 焦点(しょうてん): focus, point 地点(ちてん): site, point on a map 頂点(ちょうてん): top, summit 点ける(つける): turn on, switch on, light up 点数(てんすう): marks, points, score, number of items, credits 点々(てんてん): here and there, little by little, sporadically, scattered in drops, dot, spot 満点(まんてん): perfect score 要点(ようてん): gist, main point 零点(れいてん): zero, no marks 点(てん): point, mark, grade Kunyomi: つ.ける、つ.く、た.てる、さ.す、とぼ.す、とも.す、ぼち Onyomi: テン Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
illuminate Details Story Dictionary 照 illuminate Heisig's Although the range of possible meanings that the kanji for illuminate can have is about as rich as the connotations of the English word, we need to focus on just one of them: to make something shine. If you glaze a pot and put it into the oven to fire it, you in fact illuminate it. Hence the kanji for illuminate compares the kanji for shining with the primitive element for the oven's fire. Koohii #1 SHINING FLAMES illuminate! Koohii #2 The sun was seduced to give us fire, by which we illuminate the night. Primitives illuminate, shining, sun, day, summon, seduce, sword, dagger, mouth, oven-fire, barbecue 参照(さんしょう): reference, consultation, consultation 照合(しょうごう): collation, comparison 照明(しょうめい): illumination 照り返す(てりかえす): to reflect, to throw back light 対照(たいしょう): contrast, antithesis, comparison 照らす(てらす): shine on, illuminate 照る(てる): shine Kunyomi: て.る、て.らす、て.れる Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 照らす (て.らす), 照る (て.る), 照れる (て.れる)	illuminate 照 画数13 182 Details Story Dictionary 照 illuminate Heisig's Although the range of possible meanings that the kanji for illuminate can have is about as rich as the connotations of the English word, we need to focus on just one of them: to make something shine. If you glaze a pot and put it into the oven to fire it, you in fact illuminate it. Hence the kanji for illuminate compares the kanji for shining with the primitive element for the oven's fire. Koohii #1 SHINING FLAMES illuminate! Koohii #2 The sun was seduced to give us fire, by which we illuminate the night. Primitives illuminate, shining, sun, day, summon, seduce, sword, dagger, mouth, oven-fire, barbecue 参照(さんしょう): reference, consultation, consultation 照合(しょうごう): collation, comparison 照明(しょうめい): illumination 照り返す(てりかえす): to reflect, to throw back light 対照(たいしょう): contrast, antithesis, comparison 照らす(てらす): shine on, illuminate 照る(てる): shine Kunyomi: て.る、て.らす、て.れる Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 照らす (て.らす), 照る (て.る), 照れる (て.れる)
fish Details Story Dictionary 魚 fish Heisig's The composition of this kanji shows three elements, which we list in the order of their writing: bound up . . . rice field . . . cooking fire. Not much to work with at first sight. But we can join them together by thinking of a three-part story: first a fish is caught and bound up on a line with its unfortunate school-mates; when the fisherman gets home, he cuts off the head and tosses it, with the entrails, out into the rice fields for fertilizer; and the rest he sets in a skillet over a cooking fire for his supper. Koohii #1 The elements of this kanji are bound up, rice field and cooking fire. When I think of bound up cooked rice, it makes me think of sushi, which in turn brings to mind fish. Koohii #2 Bind that FISH and cook his brains! Yarhh! Primitives fish, bound up, rice field, brains, oven-fire, barbecue 魚(うお): fish 金魚(きんぎょ): goldfish 魚(さかな): fish Kunyomi: うお、さかな、-ざかな Onyomi: ギョ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 魚 (うお), 魚 (さかな)	fish 魚 画数11 183 Details Story Dictionary 魚 fish Heisig's The composition of this kanji shows three elements, which we list in the order of their writing: bound up . . . rice field . . . cooking fire. Not much to work with at first sight. But we can join them together by thinking of a three-part story: first a fish is caught and bound up on a line with its unfortunate school-mates; when the fisherman gets home, he cuts off the head and tosses it, with the entrails, out into the rice fields for fertilizer; and the rest he sets in a skillet over a cooking fire for his supper. Koohii #1 The elements of this kanji are bound up, rice field and cooking fire. When I think of bound up cooked rice, it makes me think of sushi, which in turn brings to mind fish. Koohii #2 Bind that FISH and cook his brains! Yarhh! Primitives fish, bound up, rice field, brains, oven-fire, barbecue 魚(うお): fish 金魚(きんぎょ): goldfish 魚(さかな): fish Kunyomi: うお、さかな、-ざかな Onyomi: ギョ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 魚 (うお), 魚 (さかな)
fishing Details Story Dictionary 漁 fishing Heisig's To the story we have just made about fish, this kanji for the profession of fishing adds yet another element BEFORE the others: namely the water, where the fish was happily at home before being caught, disemboweled, and eaten. Be sure to get a clear image of the water when you put it all together. Koohii #1 You need WATER and FISH for fishing. Koohii #2 If you are confusing this with angling like me, take fishing to mean not the act of catching a fish but the act of being a fish not living but fishing (i.e. in the water). Primitives fishing, water, water droplets, water pistol, fish, bound up, rice field, brains, oven-fire, barbecue 漁船(ぎょせん): fishing boat 漁村(ぎょそん): fishing village 漁業(ぎょぎょう): fishing (industry) 漁師(りょうし): fisherman Kunyomi: あさ.る Onyomi: ギョ、リョウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 漁業 (ぎょぎょう), 漁船 (ぎょせん), 漁村 (ぎょそん)	fishing 漁 画数14 184 Details Story Dictionary 漁 fishing Heisig's To the story we have just made about fish, this kanji for the profession of fishing adds yet another element BEFORE the others: namely the water, where the fish was happily at home before being caught, disemboweled, and eaten. Be sure to get a clear image of the water when you put it all together. Koohii #1 You need WATER and FISH for fishing. Koohii #2 If you are confusing this with angling like me, take fishing to mean not the act of catching a fish but the act of being a fish not living but fishing (i.e. in the water). Primitives fishing, water, water droplets, water pistol, fish, bound up, rice field, brains, oven-fire, barbecue 漁船(ぎょせん): fishing boat 漁村(ぎょそん): fishing village 漁業(ぎょぎょう): fishing (industry) 漁師(りょうし): fisherman Kunyomi: あさ.る Onyomi: ギョ、リョウ Lesson: 8 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 漁業 (ぎょぎょう), 漁船 (ぎょせん), 漁村 (ぎょそん)
"ri Details Story Dictionary 里 ri Heisig's That's right - a ri. Don't bother looking it up in your English dictionary; it's a Japanese word for measuring distances. One ri is about 4 kilometers or 2.5 miles. The kanji depicts how the measure came to be used. Atop we see the rice field, and below the element for land. Those four sections you see in the rice field (and which we made mention of when first we introduced the character in frame 14) are actually measurements of land, much the same as farm-sections in the United States have given us the notion of a ""country mile."" The land division based on the size of a rice field is called a ri. * To get a more concrete primitive meaning for this kanji, we shall refer to it as a computer, a meaning deriving from the kanji for logic, which we will meet in Lesson 12. Koohii #1 The ri is a Japanese way of measuring the area of the GROUND underneath a RICE FIELD. Koohii #2 Hint: Heisig makes here a severe disservice to everyone by using a weird keyword for this character. You´ll save a lot (and I mean, a whole lot) of trouble later by giving it instead its intended meaning: House of the Parents. Primitives ri, computer, rice field, brains, soil, dirt, ground 郷里(きょうり): birth-place, home town Kunyomi: さと Onyomi: リ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: Compounds: 里 (さと)"	"ri 里 画数7 185 Details Story Dictionary 里 ri Heisig's That's right - a ri. Don't bother looking it up in your English dictionary; it's a Japanese word for measuring distances. One ri is about 4 kilometers or 2.5 miles. The kanji depicts how the measure came to be used. Atop we see the rice field, and below the element for land. Those four sections you see in the rice field (and which we made mention of when first we introduced the character in frame 14) are actually measurements of land, much the same as farm-sections in the United States have given us the notion of a ""country mile."" The land division based on the size of a rice field is called a ri. * To get a more concrete primitive meaning for this kanji, we shall refer to it as a computer, a meaning deriving from the kanji for logic, which we will meet in Lesson 12. Koohii #1 The ri is a Japanese way of measuring the area of the GROUND underneath a RICE FIELD. Koohii #2 Hint: Heisig makes here a severe disservice to everyone by using a weird keyword for this character. You´ll save a lot (and I mean, a whole lot) of trouble later by giving it instead its intended meaning: House of the Parents. Primitives ri, computer, rice field, brains, soil, dirt, ground 郷里(きょうり): birth-place, home town Kunyomi: さと Onyomi: リ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: Compounds: 里 (さと)"
black Details Story Dictionary 黒 black Heisig's Like most things electrical, a computer, too, can overheat. Just imagine flames pouring out of it and charring the keyboard, the monitor, and your desk a sooty black color. Koohii #1 If you burn the GROUND of a RICE FIELD with FIRE, eventually it will turn black. Koohii #2 If your parent´s home catches on fire, it will turn black. Primitives black, computer, oven-fire, barbecue 黒字(くろじ): balance (figure) in the black 黒(くろ): the color black (noun) 黒板(こくばん): blackboard 真っ黒(まっくろ): pitch black 黒い(くろい): black, dark Kunyomi: くろ、くろ.ずむ、くろ.い Onyomi: コク Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 黒 (くろ), 黒い (くろ.い)	black 黒 画数11 186 Details Story Dictionary 黒 black Heisig's Like most things electrical, a computer, too, can overheat. Just imagine flames pouring out of it and charring the keyboard, the monitor, and your desk a sooty black color. Koohii #1 If you burn the GROUND of a RICE FIELD with FIRE, eventually it will turn black. Koohii #2 If your parent´s home catches on fire, it will turn black. Primitives black, computer, oven-fire, barbecue 黒字(くろじ): balance (figure) in the black 黒(くろ): the color black (noun) 黒板(こくばん): blackboard 真っ黒(まっくろ): pitch black 黒い(くろい): black, dark Kunyomi: くろ、くろ.ずむ、くろ.い Onyomi: コク Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 黒 (くろ), 黒い (くろ.い)
black ink Details Story Dictionary 墨 black ink Heisig's Besides meaning black ink, this kanji also appears in the word for an inked string that is pulled taut and snapped to mark a surface, much the same as one might used a chalked string. Here it is used to mark off the dirt with black lines for a foot ballgame (played, I presume, on a white field). Koohii #1 Theres BLACK on the GROUND...most likely someone spilt some black ink. Koohii #2 Anyone who has worked with laserjet ink cartridges will know the black ink looks like powdered dirt. Primitives black ink, black, computer, oven-fire, barbecue 墨(すみ): ink Kunyomi: すみ Onyomi: ボク Lesson: 9 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 墨 (すみ)	black ink 墨 画数14 187 Details Story Dictionary 墨 black ink Heisig's Besides meaning black ink, this kanji also appears in the word for an inked string that is pulled taut and snapped to mark a surface, much the same as one might used a chalked string. Here it is used to mark off the dirt with black lines for a foot ballgame (played, I presume, on a white field). Koohii #1 Theres BLACK on the GROUND...most likely someone spilt some black ink. Koohii #2 Anyone who has worked with laserjet ink cartridges will know the black ink looks like powdered dirt. Primitives black ink, black, computer, oven-fire, barbecue 墨(すみ): ink Kunyomi: すみ Onyomi: ボク Lesson: 9 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 墨 (すみ)
"carp Details Story Dictionary 鯉 carp Heisig's These are the same carp you see in Japanese ""carp streamers."" Only here we find a small home computer or two strung on the line by a father anxious for his son not only to have the courage and determination of a carp swimming upstream, but also the efficiency and memory of a computer. Ugh. Koohii #1 Japanese carp are massive fish - they are measured in ri! Koohii #2 The fish got carpal tunnel syndrome from the computer(I know it´s lame but it´s hard to find a good story for this). Primitives carp, fish, bound up, rice field, brains, oven-fire, barbecue, computer Kunyomi: こい Onyomi: リ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"carp 鯉 画数18 188 Details Story Dictionary 鯉 carp Heisig's These are the same carp you see in Japanese ""carp streamers."" Only here we find a small home computer or two strung on the line by a father anxious for his son not only to have the courage and determination of a carp swimming upstream, but also the efficiency and memory of a computer. Ugh. Koohii #1 Japanese carp are massive fish - they are measured in ri! Koohii #2 The fish got carpal tunnel syndrome from the computer(I know it´s lame but it´s hard to find a good story for this). Primitives carp, fish, bound up, rice field, brains, oven-fire, barbecue, computer Kunyomi: こい Onyomi: リ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
quantity Details Story Dictionary 量 quantity My Story A quantity can be a measure of time or space (day/ri). Koohii #1 I did such a quantity of work that when NIGHT BREAK came, I was asleep on the COMPUTER. Koohii #2 If you find that by nightbreak, you´re still playing at your computer, chances are your World of Warcraft character has a high quantity of levels. [thanks to ssmoler] ..... To remember that nightbreak appears ABOVE computer, think of looking UP from your computer at the window to realize you´ve been playing until nightbreak. Primitives quantity, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor, computer 感無量(かんむりょう): deep feeling, inexpressible feeling, filled with emotion 熱量(ねつりょう): temperature 量る(はかる): to measure, to weigh, to survey, to time (sound gauge estimate) 微量(びりょう): minuscule amount, extremely small quantity 重量(じゅうりょう): weight, heavyweight boxer 測量(そくりょう): measurement, surveying 分量(ぶんりょう): amount, quantity 量(りょう): quantity, amount, volume, portion (of food) Kunyomi: はか.る Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 量る (はか.る)	quantity 量 画数12 189 Details Story Dictionary 量 quantity My Story A quantity can be a measure of time or space (day/ri). Koohii #1 I did such a quantity of work that when NIGHT BREAK came, I was asleep on the COMPUTER. Koohii #2 If you find that by nightbreak, you´re still playing at your computer, chances are your World of Warcraft character has a high quantity of levels. [thanks to ssmoler] ..... To remember that nightbreak appears ABOVE computer, think of looking UP from your computer at the window to realize you´ve been playing until nightbreak. Primitives quantity, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor, computer 感無量(かんむりょう): deep feeling, inexpressible feeling, filled with emotion 熱量(ねつりょう): temperature 量る(はかる): to measure, to weigh, to survey, to time (sound gauge estimate) 微量(びりょう): minuscule amount, extremely small quantity 重量(じゅうりょう): weight, heavyweight boxer 測量(そくりょう): measurement, surveying 分量(ぶんりょう): amount, quantity 量(りょう): quantity, amount, volume, portion (of food) Kunyomi: はか.る Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 量る (はか.る)
"rin Details Story Dictionary 厘 rin Heisig's No doubt you will find it in your heart to forgive me for forcing yet another Japanese word on you in this frame. It is not the last time it will happen in this book, but I can assure you they are used only when absolutely necessary. One rin is equal to about 1/1000 of a yen - or rather was worth that much when it still made economic sense to mint them. While inflation took its toll on this kanji as a monetary unit, it survived with the not at all surprising sense of something ""very, very tiny."" The kanji shows a cliff with a computer under it, apparently because it has been pushed over into the abyss by someone fed up with the thing. The total market value of one home computer that has fallen over rock and bramble for several hundred feet: about one rin! Koohii #1 I threw my Rindows computer off a cliff because it kept crashing. Now, after its last crash, it´s worth less than a rin. Koohii #2 A computer dropped off of a cliff would be worth about 1 RIN. Primitives rin, cliff, computer Kunyomi: Onyomi: リン Lesson: 9 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"rin 厘 画数9 190 Details Story Dictionary 厘 rin Heisig's No doubt you will find it in your heart to forgive me for forcing yet another Japanese word on you in this frame. It is not the last time it will happen in this book, but I can assure you they are used only when absolutely necessary. One rin is equal to about 1/1000 of a yen - or rather was worth that much when it still made economic sense to mint them. While inflation took its toll on this kanji as a monetary unit, it survived with the not at all surprising sense of something ""very, very tiny."" The kanji shows a cliff with a computer under it, apparently because it has been pushed over into the abyss by someone fed up with the thing. The total market value of one home computer that has fallen over rock and bramble for several hundred feet: about one rin! Koohii #1 I threw my Rindows computer off a cliff because it kept crashing. Now, after its last crash, it´s worth less than a rin. Koohii #2 A computer dropped off of a cliff would be worth about 1 RIN. Primitives rin, cliff, computer Kunyomi: Onyomi: リン Lesson: 9 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"bury Details Story Dictionary 埋 bury Heisig's When we speak of burying something (or someone, for that matter), we usually mean putting them under ground. Only here, we are burying our beloved computer that has served us so well these past years. Behind us a choir chants the ""Dies irae, dies illa"" and there is much wailing and grief among the bystanders as they pass by to shovel a little dirt into what will be its final resting place. R.I.P. Koohii #1 You can´t bury computers underground, because of the dangerous heavy metals, so you hide them behind an equally large mound of soil and hope no-one notices. Koohii #2 I used SOIL to BURY my COMPUTER. Primitives bury, soil, dirt, ground, computer 埋まる(うずまる): to be buried, to be surrounded, to overflow, to be filled 埋め込む(うめこむ): to bury 埋蔵(まいぞう): buried property, treasure trove 埋める(うめる): bury (e.g. one´s face in hands) Kunyomi: う.める、う.まる、う.もれる、うず.める、うず.まる、い.ける Onyomi: マイ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 埋まる (う.まる), 埋める (う.める), 埋もれる (う.もれる)"	"bury 埋 画数10 191 Details Story Dictionary 埋 bury Heisig's When we speak of burying something (or someone, for that matter), we usually mean putting them under ground. Only here, we are burying our beloved computer that has served us so well these past years. Behind us a choir chants the ""Dies irae, dies illa"" and there is much wailing and grief among the bystanders as they pass by to shovel a little dirt into what will be its final resting place. R.I.P. Koohii #1 You can´t bury computers underground, because of the dangerous heavy metals, so you hide them behind an equally large mound of soil and hope no-one notices. Koohii #2 I used SOIL to BURY my COMPUTER. Primitives bury, soil, dirt, ground, computer 埋まる(うずまる): to be buried, to be surrounded, to overflow, to be filled 埋め込む(うめこむ): to bury 埋蔵(まいぞう): buried property, treasure trove 埋める(うめる): bury (e.g. one´s face in hands) Kunyomi: う.める、う.まる、う.もれる、うず.める、うず.まる、い.ける Onyomi: マイ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 埋まる (う.まる), 埋める (う.める), 埋もれる (う.もれる)"
"same Details Story Dictionary 同 same Heisig's The primitives in this kanji show us one and mouth under a hood. Let us take the key word to connote the sameness that characterizes the life in community of the monk. They all have the same habits, including the ""habit"" they wear on their backs. Here we see the monk's cowl, drawn down over the eyes so that all you can see when you look at him is a mouth. But since monks also speak their prayers in common, it is but a short step to think of one mouth under a hood as the kanji for the sameness of monastic life. * As a primitive, this will mean monks dressed in a common habit. Koohii #1 Muslim women wearing veils (HOOD) all look the same, you can just see ONE MOUTH and very little else. Koohii #2 Imagine monks wandering around the monastery. Covered in their hoods and chanting as if with one mouth they all look the same ! Primitives same, monks, hood, one, mouth 一同(いちどう): all present, all concerned, all of us 同い年(おないどし): of the same age 混同(こんどう): confusion, mixing, merger 同(どう): the same, the said, ibid. 同意(どうい): agreement, consent, same meaning, same opinion, approval 同感(どうかん): agreement, same opinion, same feeling, sympathy, concurrence 同級(どうきゅう): the same grade, same class 同居(どうきょ): living together 同志(どうし): same mind, comrade, kindred soul 同士(どうし): fellow, companion, comrade 同情(どうじょう): sympathy, compassion, sympathize, pity, feel for 同調(どうちょう): sympathy, agree with, alignment, tuning 同等(どうとう): equality, equal, same rights, same rank 同封(どうふう): enclosure (e.g. in a letter) 同盟(どうめい): alliance, union, league 共同(きょうどう): cooperation, association, collaboration, joint 合同(ごうどう): combination, incorporation, union, amalgamation, fusion, congruence 同一(どういつ): identity, sameness, similarity, equality, fairness 同格(どうかく): the same rank, equality, apposition 同時(どうじ): simultaneous(ly), concurrent, same time, synchronous 同様(どうよう): identical, equal to, same (kind), like 同僚(どうりょう): coworker, colleague, associate 同じ(おなじ): same, identical, equal, uniform, equivalent, similar, common (origin), changeless Kunyomi: おな.じ Onyomi: ドウ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 同じ (おな.じ)"	"same 同 画数6 192 Details Story Dictionary 同 same Heisig's The primitives in this kanji show us one and mouth under a hood. Let us take the key word to connote the sameness that characterizes the life in community of the monk. They all have the same habits, including the ""habit"" they wear on their backs. Here we see the monk's cowl, drawn down over the eyes so that all you can see when you look at him is a mouth. But since monks also speak their prayers in common, it is but a short step to think of one mouth under a hood as the kanji for the sameness of monastic life. * As a primitive, this will mean monks dressed in a common habit. Koohii #1 Muslim women wearing veils (HOOD) all look the same, you can just see ONE MOUTH and very little else. Koohii #2 Imagine monks wandering around the monastery. Covered in their hoods and chanting as if with one mouth they all look the same ! Primitives same, monks, hood, one, mouth 一同(いちどう): all present, all concerned, all of us 同い年(おないどし): of the same age 混同(こんどう): confusion, mixing, merger 同(どう): the same, the said, ibid. 同意(どうい): agreement, consent, same meaning, same opinion, approval 同感(どうかん): agreement, same opinion, same feeling, sympathy, concurrence 同級(どうきゅう): the same grade, same class 同居(どうきょ): living together 同志(どうし): same mind, comrade, kindred soul 同士(どうし): fellow, companion, comrade 同情(どうじょう): sympathy, compassion, sympathize, pity, feel for 同調(どうちょう): sympathy, agree with, alignment, tuning 同等(どうとう): equality, equal, same rights, same rank 同封(どうふう): enclosure (e.g. in a letter) 同盟(どうめい): alliance, union, league 共同(きょうどう): cooperation, association, collaboration, joint 合同(ごうどう): combination, incorporation, union, amalgamation, fusion, congruence 同一(どういつ): identity, sameness, similarity, equality, fairness 同格(どうかく): the same rank, equality, apposition 同時(どうじ): simultaneous(ly), concurrent, same time, synchronous 同様(どうよう): identical, equal to, same (kind), like 同僚(どうりょう): coworker, colleague, associate 同じ(おなじ): same, identical, equal, uniform, equivalent, similar, common (origin), changeless Kunyomi: おな.じ Onyomi: ドウ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 同じ (おな.じ)"
"den Details Story Dictionary 洞 den Heisig's The key word den refers to an animal lair hollowed out in the side of a mountain. Now if we keep to the image of the monastic life as an image for same, we can picture a den of wild beasts dressed up in habits and living the common life in a mountain cavern. To bring in the element of water we need only give them a sacred ""puddle"" in the center of their den, the focus of all their pious attentions. Koohii #1 All the animals in the den share the same water. Koohii #2 Den and ""cave"" also make me think of a monk´s cell. Monks take vows of silence and fast. So a den is where you´d find nothing but water (to drink) and a monk. Primitives den, water, water droplets, water pistol, same, monks, hood, one, mouth Kunyomi: ほら Onyomi: ドウ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 洞 (ほら)"	"den 洞 画数9 193 Details Story Dictionary 洞 den Heisig's The key word den refers to an animal lair hollowed out in the side of a mountain. Now if we keep to the image of the monastic life as an image for same, we can picture a den of wild beasts dressed up in habits and living the common life in a mountain cavern. To bring in the element of water we need only give them a sacred ""puddle"" in the center of their den, the focus of all their pious attentions. Koohii #1 All the animals in the den share the same water. Koohii #2 Den and ""cave"" also make me think of a monk´s cell. Monks take vows of silence and fast. So a den is where you´d find nothing but water (to drink) and a monk. Primitives den, water, water droplets, water pistol, same, monks, hood, one, mouth Kunyomi: ほら Onyomi: ドウ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 洞 (ほら)"
"trunk Details Story Dictionary 胴 trunk Heisig's The word trunk refers to the part of the body that is left when you have ""truncated"" all the limbs. I can hardly think of any reason for doing so, unless one were lumberjacking corpses and needed to have them all properly pruned and made the same so they could be floated downstream without causing a body-jam. Koohii #1 A trunk, a trunk // The body of a monk // The body of a monk in a trunk, a trunk. Koohii #2 Dead flesh all looks the same when you chop off everything but the trunk. Yes, I´m appalled at how gruesome this story is too. Primitives trunk, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, same, monks, hood, one, mouth 胴(どう): trunk, body, frame Kunyomi: Onyomi: ドウ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"trunk 胴 画数10 194 Details Story Dictionary 胴 trunk Heisig's The word trunk refers to the part of the body that is left when you have ""truncated"" all the limbs. I can hardly think of any reason for doing so, unless one were lumberjacking corpses and needed to have them all properly pruned and made the same so they could be floated downstream without causing a body-jam. Koohii #1 A trunk, a trunk // The body of a monk // The body of a monk in a trunk, a trunk. Koohii #2 Dead flesh all looks the same when you chop off everything but the trunk. Yes, I´m appalled at how gruesome this story is too. Primitives trunk, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, same, monks, hood, one, mouth 胴(どう): trunk, body, frame Kunyomi: Onyomi: ドウ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
yonder Details Story Dictionary 向 yonder My Story Bruh, there is a pimple (dot) yonder your *goatee* Koohii #1 Look over yonder ! That tiny dot is robin hood at the mouth of his secret cave ! Koohii #2 There was an old woman named Wanda,// Who wanted to make herself blonder.// She covered her くち// With a glass hood from Gucci// And dropped some hair dye on from yonder. Primitives yonder, alien, drop, helmet, hood, mouth 意向(いこう): intention, idea, inclination 向上(こうじょう): elevation, rise, improvement, advancement, progress 志向(しこう): intention, aim 動向(どうこう): trend, tendency, movement, attitude 一向(ひたすら): earnestly 日向(ひなた): sunny place, in the sun 向かう(むかう): to face, to go towards 向き(むき): direction, situation, exposure, aspect, suitability 向け(むけ): for ~, oriented towards ~ 傾向(けいこう): tendency, trend, inclination 方向(ほうこう): direction, course, way 向かい(むかい): facing, opposite, across the street, other side 向う(むかう): to face, go towards 向く(むく): to face 向ける(むける): turn towards, point 向こう(むこう): beyond, over there, opposite direction, the other party Kunyomi: む.く、む.い、-む.き、む.ける、-む.け、む.かう、む.かい、む.こう、む.こう-、むこ、むか.い Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 向かう (む.かう), 向く (む.く), 向ける (む.ける), 向こう (む.こう)	yonder 向 画数6 195 Details Story Dictionary 向 yonder My Story Bruh, there is a pimple (dot) yonder your *goatee* Koohii #1 Look over yonder ! That tiny dot is robin hood at the mouth of his secret cave ! Koohii #2 There was an old woman named Wanda,// Who wanted to make herself blonder.// She covered her くち// With a glass hood from Gucci// And dropped some hair dye on from yonder. Primitives yonder, alien, drop, helmet, hood, mouth 意向(いこう): intention, idea, inclination 向上(こうじょう): elevation, rise, improvement, advancement, progress 志向(しこう): intention, aim 動向(どうこう): trend, tendency, movement, attitude 一向(ひたすら): earnestly 日向(ひなた): sunny place, in the sun 向かう(むかう): to face, to go towards 向き(むき): direction, situation, exposure, aspect, suitability 向け(むけ): for ~, oriented towards ~ 傾向(けいこう): tendency, trend, inclination 方向(ほうこう): direction, course, way 向かい(むかい): facing, opposite, across the street, other side 向う(むかう): to face, go towards 向く(むく): to face 向ける(むける): turn towards, point 向こう(むこう): beyond, over there, opposite direction, the other party Kunyomi: む.く、む.い、-む.き、む.ける、-む.け、む.かう、む.かい、む.こう、む.こう-、むこ、むか.い Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 向かう (む.かう), 向く (む.く), 向ける (む.ける), 向こう (む.こう)
esteem Details Story Dictionary 尚 esteem Heisig's Above we see the primitive for little attached to one of those glass canopies you might use to display a family heirloom. The littleness is important, because what is in fact on display is the shrunken, stuffed, and mounted mouth of an esteemed ancestor. We may be used to esteeming the words our forebears leave behind, but here we also esteem the very mouth that spoke them. I leave it to you to imagine a suitable place in your room for displaying such an unusual conversation piece. Koohii #1 An especially esteemed alien has three antennae on his helmet. Koohii #2 Remember that scene from Star Wars, where Luke is wearing that helmet that only his mouth could see, and was swinging at that little thing buzzing around the room? That was Obi-Wan´s trick to get Luke to build his self-esteem, or his confidence in the Force. Primitives esteem, small, little, alien, glass canopy, hood, mouth 高尚(こうしょう): high, noble, refined, advanced 尚(なお): furthermore, still, yet, more, still more, greater, further, less 尚更(なおさら): all the more, still less Kunyomi: なお Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	esteem 尚 画数8 196 Details Story Dictionary 尚 esteem Heisig's Above we see the primitive for little attached to one of those glass canopies you might use to display a family heirloom. The littleness is important, because what is in fact on display is the shrunken, stuffed, and mounted mouth of an esteemed ancestor. We may be used to esteeming the words our forebears leave behind, but here we also esteem the very mouth that spoke them. I leave it to you to imagine a suitable place in your room for displaying such an unusual conversation piece. Koohii #1 An especially esteemed alien has three antennae on his helmet. Koohii #2 Remember that scene from Star Wars, where Luke is wearing that helmet that only his mouth could see, and was swinging at that little thing buzzing around the room? That was Obi-Wan´s trick to get Luke to build his self-esteem, or his confidence in the Force. Primitives esteem, small, little, alien, glass canopy, hood, mouth 高尚(こうしょう): high, noble, refined, advanced 尚(なお): furthermore, still, yet, more, still more, greater, further, less 尚更(なおさら): all the more, still less Kunyomi: なお Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"character Details Story Dictionary 字 character Heisig's Here is the character for character itself. Not just kanji, but any written character from hieroglyphs to Sanskrit to our own Roman alphabet. It shows us simply a child in a house. But let us take advantage of the double-meaning of the key word to note that just as a child born to a Japanese house is given characters for its name, so it is also stamped with the character of those who raise it from infancy on. Koohii #1 CHILDren learn Kanji characters underneath a HOUSE. Koohii #2 Why do I have to wear this roof on my head all the time father? ""Shut up! It builds character!"". Primitives character, house, child 赤字(あかじ): deficit, go in the red 字(あざ): section of village 当て字(あてじ): phonetic-equivalent character, substitute character 英字(えいじ): English letter (character) 黒字(くろじ): balance (figure) in the black 字体(じたい): type, font, lettering 十字路(じゅうじろ): crossroads 文字(もじ): letter (of alphabet), character ローマ字(ローマじ): romanization, Roman letters 活字(かつじ): printing type 習字(しゅうじ): penmanship 数字(すうじ): numeral, figure 名字(みょうじ): surname, family name ローマ字(ローマじ): Romaji 字(じ): character 漢字(かんじ): Chinese characters, kanji 字引(じびき): dictionary Kunyomi: あざ、あざな、-な Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 字 (あざ)"	"character 字 画数6 197 Details Story Dictionary 字 character Heisig's Here is the character for character itself. Not just kanji, but any written character from hieroglyphs to Sanskrit to our own Roman alphabet. It shows us simply a child in a house. But let us take advantage of the double-meaning of the key word to note that just as a child born to a Japanese house is given characters for its name, so it is also stamped with the character of those who raise it from infancy on. Koohii #1 CHILDren learn Kanji characters underneath a HOUSE. Koohii #2 Why do I have to wear this roof on my head all the time father? ""Shut up! It builds character!"". Primitives character, house, child 赤字(あかじ): deficit, go in the red 字(あざ): section of village 当て字(あてじ): phonetic-equivalent character, substitute character 英字(えいじ): English letter (character) 黒字(くろじ): balance (figure) in the black 字体(じたい): type, font, lettering 十字路(じゅうじろ): crossroads 文字(もじ): letter (of alphabet), character ローマ字(ローマじ): romanization, Roman letters 活字(かつじ): printing type 習字(しゅうじ): penmanship 数字(すうじ): numeral, figure 名字(みょうじ): surname, family name ローマ字(ローマじ): Romaji 字(じ): character 漢字(かんじ): Chinese characters, kanji 字引(じびき): dictionary Kunyomi: あざ、あざな、-な Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 字 (あざ)"
"guard Details Story Dictionary 守 guard My Story The guard has a *crown* *glued* to his head Koohii #1 A GUARD is usually ""glued"" to the house he watches. Koohii #2 A guard provides a measure of security to those under a roof. Primitives guard, house, glue 守衛(しゅえい): security guard, doorkeeper 守備(しゅび): defense 保守(ほしゅ): conservative, maintaining 守る(まもる): protect, obey, guard, abide (by the rules) 留守番(るすばん): care-taking, caretaker, house-watching 留守(るす): being away, be out (of one´s home or office) Kunyomi: まも.る、まも.り、もり、-もり、かみ Onyomi: シュ、ス Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 守備 (しゅび), 保守 (ほしゅ), 攻守 (こうしゅ), 守る (まも.る), 守 (もり)"	"guard 守 画数6 198 Details Story Dictionary 守 guard My Story The guard has a *crown* *glued* to his head Koohii #1 A GUARD is usually ""glued"" to the house he watches. Koohii #2 A guard provides a measure of security to those under a roof. Primitives guard, house, glue 守衛(しゅえい): security guard, doorkeeper 守備(しゅび): defense 保守(ほしゅ): conservative, maintaining 守る(まもる): protect, obey, guard, abide (by the rules) 留守番(るすばん): care-taking, caretaker, house-watching 留守(るす): being away, be out (of one´s home or office) Kunyomi: まも.る、まも.り、もり、-もり、かみ Onyomi: シュ、ス Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 守備 (しゅび), 保守 (ほしゅ), 攻守 (こうしゅ), 守る (まも.る), 守 (もり)"
"perfect Details Story Dictionary 完 perfect Heisig's In order not to confuse the key word perfect with others nearly synonymous in meaning, pull it apart to have a look at its native Latin roots. Per-factum suggests something so ""thoroughly made or done"" that nothing more needs to be added to it. Now look at the kanji, which does something similar. We see a house that has been made perfectly from its beginnings in the foundation to the roof on the top. Now return to frame 101 and make sure not to confuse this key word with the kanji for complete. Koohii #1 Make the perfect impression in the beginning by removing your shoes upon entering a Japanese home. Koohii #2 In the beginning, Adam and Eve had a home in Eden. It was perfect. Primitives perfect, house, beginning, two, human legs 完璧(かんぺき): perfection, completeness, flawless 完成(かんせい): complete, completion, perfection, accomplishment 完全(かんぜん): perfection, completeness 完了(かんりょう): completion, conclusion Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"perfect 完 画数7 199 Details Story Dictionary 完 perfect Heisig's In order not to confuse the key word perfect with others nearly synonymous in meaning, pull it apart to have a look at its native Latin roots. Per-factum suggests something so ""thoroughly made or done"" that nothing more needs to be added to it. Now look at the kanji, which does something similar. We see a house that has been made perfectly from its beginnings in the foundation to the roof on the top. Now return to frame 101 and make sure not to confuse this key word with the kanji for complete. Koohii #1 Make the perfect impression in the beginning by removing your shoes upon entering a Japanese home. Koohii #2 In the beginning, Adam and Eve had a home in Eden. It was perfect. Primitives perfect, house, beginning, two, human legs 完璧(かんぺき): perfection, completeness, flawless 完成(かんせい): complete, completion, perfection, accomplishment 完全(かんぜん): perfection, completeness 完了(かんりょう): completion, conclusion Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
proclaim Details Story Dictionary 宣 proclaim My Story [Crown + span {亘}] After I got my *crown* I was proclaimed king, I hope for a long *span* Koohii #1 You can proclaim your opinions from the comfort of your HOUSE and have it SPAN the entire globe these days via The Internet. Koohii #2 I heard young Muslims have to memorise the Koran and proclaim it aloud as a kind of rite of passage. Imagine the SPAN of hours spent under a ROOF practising that! It must surely be worse than trying to get through Heisigs RTK - count yourself lucky. Primitives proclaim, house, span, one, ceiling, sun, day, one, floor, one 宣教(せんきょう): religious mission 宣言(せんげん): declaration, proclamation, announcement 宣伝(せんでん): propaganda, publicity Kunyomi: のたま.う、のたま.わく Onyomi: セン Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	proclaim 宣 画数9 200 Details Story Dictionary 宣 proclaim My Story [Crown + span {亘}] After I got my *crown* I was proclaimed king, I hope for a long *span* Koohii #1 You can proclaim your opinions from the comfort of your HOUSE and have it SPAN the entire globe these days via The Internet. Koohii #2 I heard young Muslims have to memorise the Koran and proclaim it aloud as a kind of rite of passage. Imagine the SPAN of hours spent under a ROOF practising that! It must surely be worse than trying to get through Heisigs RTK - count yourself lucky. Primitives proclaim, house, span, one, ceiling, sun, day, one, floor, one 宣教(せんきょう): religious mission 宣言(せんげん): declaration, proclamation, announcement 宣伝(せんでん): propaganda, publicity Kunyomi: のたま.う、のたま.わく Onyomi: セン Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"wee hours Details Story Dictionary 宵 wee hours Heisig's As the key word hints, the kanji in this frame refers to the late evening or early morning hours, well after one should be in bed asleep. It does this by picturing a house with a candle in it. The reason is obvious: whoever is living there is ""burning the candle at both ends,"" and working night after night into the wee hours. Koohii #1 I burn the CANDLE in my HOUSE until the WEE HOURS reviewing the kanji!!! Koohii #2 I agree with elktapestry. This kanji really means ""early evening"", not ""wee hours"" [Heisig really should have done his homework on this and several other characters (e.g., #145 ""but of course"" -- what the hell???). Oh well.] ""Every house lights candles in the EARLY EVENING which stay lit until the wee hours"". E.G. 宵の口（よいのくち）early evening; 今宵（こよい）this evening; tonight. Primitives wee hours, house, resemblance, spark, candle, small, little, moon, month, flesh, part of the body Kunyomi: よい Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 宵 (よい)"	"wee hours 宵 画数10 201 Details Story Dictionary 宵 wee hours Heisig's As the key word hints, the kanji in this frame refers to the late evening or early morning hours, well after one should be in bed asleep. It does this by picturing a house with a candle in it. The reason is obvious: whoever is living there is ""burning the candle at both ends,"" and working night after night into the wee hours. Koohii #1 I burn the CANDLE in my HOUSE until the WEE HOURS reviewing the kanji!!! Koohii #2 I agree with elktapestry. This kanji really means ""early evening"", not ""wee hours"" [Heisig really should have done his homework on this and several other characters (e.g., #145 ""but of course"" -- what the hell???). Oh well.] ""Every house lights candles in the EARLY EVENING which stay lit until the wee hours"". E.G. 宵の口（よいのくち）early evening; 今宵（こよい）this evening; tonight. Primitives wee hours, house, resemblance, spark, candle, small, little, moon, month, flesh, part of the body Kunyomi: よい Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 宵 (よい)"
relax Details Story Dictionary 安 relax Heisig's To be told that the place of the woman is in the house may not sit well with modern thought, but like all cultural habits the Chinese characters bear the birthmarks of their age. So indulge yourself in a Norman Rockwell image of relaxing after a hard day's work: the scruffy and weary woman of the house slouched asleep in the living room chair, her hair in curlers and a duster lying in her lap. Koohii #1 It´s funny, Hesig gives no Kanji in his book that means cheap/inexpensive... well... if you were wondering what Kanji would carry that meaning, look no further. Sometimes I wonder if Hesig just thinks our little brains would be too easily confused by multiple meanings. Regardless, think of that woman relaxing. Cheapest place to do that is in one´s own home rather than at some fancy resort, eh? 家で休暇を取るは安いですね。. Koohii #2 You can only relax, when you have woman under roof to do all chores. Primitives relax, house, woman 安静(あんせい): rest 治安(ちあん): public order 安っぽい(やすっぽい): cheap-looking, tawdry, insignificant 安易(あんい): easygoing 安定(あんてい): stability, equilibrium 不安(ふあん): anxiety, uneasiness, insecurity, suspense 目安(めやす): criterion, aim 安心(あんしん): peace of mind, relief 安全(あんぜん): safety 安い(やすい): cheap, inexpensive, peaceful, quiet, gossipy, thoughtless Kunyomi: やす.い、やす.まる、やす、やす.らか Onyomi: アン Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 安い (やす.い)	relax 安 画数6 202 Details Story Dictionary 安 relax Heisig's To be told that the place of the woman is in the house may not sit well with modern thought, but like all cultural habits the Chinese characters bear the birthmarks of their age. So indulge yourself in a Norman Rockwell image of relaxing after a hard day's work: the scruffy and weary woman of the house slouched asleep in the living room chair, her hair in curlers and a duster lying in her lap. Koohii #1 It´s funny, Hesig gives no Kanji in his book that means cheap/inexpensive... well... if you were wondering what Kanji would carry that meaning, look no further. Sometimes I wonder if Hesig just thinks our little brains would be too easily confused by multiple meanings. Regardless, think of that woman relaxing. Cheapest place to do that is in one´s own home rather than at some fancy resort, eh? 家で休暇を取るは安いですね。. Koohii #2 You can only relax, when you have woman under roof to do all chores. Primitives relax, house, woman 安静(あんせい): rest 治安(ちあん): public order 安っぽい(やすっぽい): cheap-looking, tawdry, insignificant 安易(あんい): easygoing 安定(あんてい): stability, equilibrium 不安(ふあん): anxiety, uneasiness, insecurity, suspense 目安(めやす): criterion, aim 安心(あんしん): peace of mind, relief 安全(あんぜん): safety 安い(やすい): cheap, inexpensive, peaceful, quiet, gossipy, thoughtless Kunyomi: やす.い、やす.まる、やす、やす.らか Onyomi: アン Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 安い (やす.い)
"banquet Details Story Dictionary 宴 banquet Heisig's To carry on from the last frame, we note the entire day of work that comes between a woman and her house in preparing for a dinner banquet, pictorially ""interrupting"" her relaxation. Koohii #1 The WOMAN spent all DAY preparing a banquet in the HOUSE. Koohii #2 Under the roof, all day long, the woman prepared for the banquet (this wording helps me remember the order of this kanji´s elements). Primitives banquet, relax, house, sun, day, tongue wagging, woman 宴会(えんかい): party, banquet Kunyomi: うたげ Onyomi: エン Lesson: 9 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"banquet 宴 画数10 203 Details Story Dictionary 宴 banquet Heisig's To carry on from the last frame, we note the entire day of work that comes between a woman and her house in preparing for a dinner banquet, pictorially ""interrupting"" her relaxation. Koohii #1 The WOMAN spent all DAY preparing a banquet in the HOUSE. Koohii #2 Under the roof, all day long, the woman prepared for the banquet (this wording helps me remember the order of this kanji´s elements). Primitives banquet, relax, house, sun, day, tongue wagging, woman 宴会(えんかい): party, banquet Kunyomi: うたげ Onyomi: エン Lesson: 9 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"draw near Details Story Dictionary 寄 draw near Heisig's Let the idea of drawing near suggest something dangerous or eerie that one approaches with fear and trembling. Here we see a strange house - perhaps the haunted House of Usher that Edgar Allen Poe immortalized, or the enchanted Gingerbread House that lured Hansel and Gretel to draw near. Koohii #1 The strange house has a sign saying ""DRAW NEAR"" in its window, instead of a ´Beware´ sign. It must be a trick! Koohii #2 Imagine a horror movie set in a haunted mansion. The house is very strange. The characters draw near to one another for protection against the unknown. Primitives draw near, house, strange, large, St. Bernard, can, street, nail, spike, mouth 押し寄せる(おしよせる): to push aside, to advance on 寄贈(きそう): donation, presentation 寄与(きよ): contribution, service 立ち寄る(たちよる): to stop by, to drop in for a short visit 年寄り(としより): old people, the aged 取り寄せる(とりよせる): to order, to send away for 寄こす(よこす): to send, to forward 寄り掛かる(よりかかる): to lean against, to recline on, to lean on, to rely on 片寄る(かたよる): be one-sided, partial, prejudiced, biased, lean, be inclined 寄付(きふ): contribution, donation 近寄る(ちかよる): approach, draw near 寄せる(よせる): collect, gather, add, put aside 寄る(よる): drop in, stop by Kunyomi: よ.る、-よ.り、よ.せる Onyomi: キ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 寄せる (よ.せる), 寄る (よ.る)"	"draw near 寄 画数11 204 Details Story Dictionary 寄 draw near Heisig's Let the idea of drawing near suggest something dangerous or eerie that one approaches with fear and trembling. Here we see a strange house - perhaps the haunted House of Usher that Edgar Allen Poe immortalized, or the enchanted Gingerbread House that lured Hansel and Gretel to draw near. Koohii #1 The strange house has a sign saying ""DRAW NEAR"" in its window, instead of a ´Beware´ sign. It must be a trick! Koohii #2 Imagine a horror movie set in a haunted mansion. The house is very strange. The characters draw near to one another for protection against the unknown. Primitives draw near, house, strange, large, St. Bernard, can, street, nail, spike, mouth 押し寄せる(おしよせる): to push aside, to advance on 寄贈(きそう): donation, presentation 寄与(きよ): contribution, service 立ち寄る(たちよる): to stop by, to drop in for a short visit 年寄り(としより): old people, the aged 取り寄せる(とりよせる): to order, to send away for 寄こす(よこす): to send, to forward 寄り掛かる(よりかかる): to lean against, to recline on, to lean on, to rely on 片寄る(かたよる): be one-sided, partial, prejudiced, biased, lean, be inclined 寄付(きふ): contribution, donation 近寄る(ちかよる): approach, draw near 寄せる(よせる): collect, gather, add, put aside 寄る(よる): drop in, stop by Kunyomi: よ.る、-よ.り、よ.せる Onyomi: キ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 寄せる (よ.せる), 寄る (よ.る)"
wealth Details Story Dictionary 富 wealth Heisig's Here we have the original character on which the primitive element for wealth is based. In keeping with the story introduced back then, note how all the wealth is kept under the roof of the same house. Koohii #1 Remember Ducktales? That rich duck had that room in his house where he kept all the wealth! He had so much in that house you could even swim in it! Koohii #2 In ancient Japan, a RICE FIELD is a unit of wealth as it can produce enough to feed all the MOUTHs in ONE HOUSE. Primitives wealth, house, wealth, one, ceiling, mouth, rice field, brains 富(とみ): wealth, fortune 富む(とむ): to be rich, to become rich 富豪(ふごう): wealthy person, millionaire 豊富(ほうふ): abundance, wealth, plenty, bounty Kunyomi: と.む、とみ Onyomi: フ、フウ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 富強 (ふきょう), 富裕 (ふゆう), 貧富 (ひんぷ), 富む (と.む), 富 (とみ)	wealth 富 画数12 205 Details Story Dictionary 富 wealth Heisig's Here we have the original character on which the primitive element for wealth is based. In keeping with the story introduced back then, note how all the wealth is kept under the roof of the same house. Koohii #1 Remember Ducktales? That rich duck had that room in his house where he kept all the wealth! He had so much in that house you could even swim in it! Koohii #2 In ancient Japan, a RICE FIELD is a unit of wealth as it can produce enough to feed all the MOUTHs in ONE HOUSE. Primitives wealth, house, wealth, one, ceiling, mouth, rice field, brains 富(とみ): wealth, fortune 富む(とむ): to be rich, to become rich 富豪(ふごう): wealthy person, millionaire 豊富(ほうふ): abundance, wealth, plenty, bounty Kunyomi: と.む、とみ Onyomi: フ、フウ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 富強 (ふきょう), 富裕 (ふゆう), 貧富 (ひんぷ), 富む (と.む), 富 (とみ)
savings Details Story Dictionary 貯 savings Heisig's To avoid confusing this frame with the last one, try to think of savings as actual money. The only difference is that our currency is not paper bills but shells, a not uncommon unit of exchange in older civilizations. The nail under the roof of the house points to a hiding place in the rafters on which one strings up one's shells for safekeeping. Koohii #1 It takes a lot more than one clam of savings to buy a house on a street. Koohii #2 My SAVINGS plan - I nail my moneybags up in the rafters below my roof. I´m very secretive about it, and I wear a disguise with a big mustache (another meaning of this kanji) while I stash my loot. Primitives savings, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, house, street, nail, spike 貯蓄(ちょちく): savings 貯金(ちょきん): (bank) savings 貯蔵(ちょぞう): storage, preservation Kunyomi: た.める、たくわ.える Onyomi: チョ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	savings 貯 画数12 206 Details Story Dictionary 貯 savings Heisig's To avoid confusing this frame with the last one, try to think of savings as actual money. The only difference is that our currency is not paper bills but shells, a not uncommon unit of exchange in older civilizations. The nail under the roof of the house points to a hiding place in the rafters on which one strings up one's shells for safekeeping. Koohii #1 It takes a lot more than one clam of savings to buy a house on a street. Koohii #2 My SAVINGS plan - I nail my moneybags up in the rafters below my roof. I´m very secretive about it, and I wear a disguise with a big mustache (another meaning of this kanji) while I stash my loot. Primitives savings, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, house, street, nail, spike 貯蓄(ちょちく): savings 貯金(ちょきん): (bank) savings 貯蔵(ちょぞう): storage, preservation Kunyomi: た.める、たくわ.える Onyomi: チョ Lesson: 9 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
tree Details Story Dictionary 木 tree Heisig's Here we see a pictograph of a tree, showing the main trunk in the long vertical stroke and the boughs in the long horizontal stroke. The final two strokes sweep down in both directions to indicate the roots. Although it may look similar at first sight to the kanji for water (Frame 137), the order in which it is written is completely different and this affects its final appearance. * As a primitive, this kanji can be used to mean tree or wood. In those cases where the last two strokes are detached from the trunk, we shall change its meaning to pole, or wooden pole. Koohii #1 If you need a story for a tree, then you need to be hit by one. Koohii #2 Pictograph of a tree. Primitives tree, wood 木綿(きわた): cotton 雑木(ざつぼく): various kinds of small trees, assorted trees 樹木(じゅもく): trees and shrubs, arbour 土木(どぼく): public works 木曜(もくよう): Thursday 植木(うえき): garden shrubs, trees, potted plant 材木(ざいもく): lumber, timber 大木(たいぼく): large tree 並木(なみき): roadside tree, row of trees 木材(もくざい): lumber, timber, wood 木綿(もめん): cotton 木(き): tree, wood, timber 木曜日(もくようび): Thursday Kunyomi: き、こ- Onyomi: ボク、モク Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 木石 (ぼくせき), 大木 (たいぼく), 土木 (どぼく), 木 (き)	tree 木 画数4 207 Details Story Dictionary 木 tree Heisig's Here we see a pictograph of a tree, showing the main trunk in the long vertical stroke and the boughs in the long horizontal stroke. The final two strokes sweep down in both directions to indicate the roots. Although it may look similar at first sight to the kanji for water (Frame 137), the order in which it is written is completely different and this affects its final appearance. * As a primitive, this kanji can be used to mean tree or wood. In those cases where the last two strokes are detached from the trunk, we shall change its meaning to pole, or wooden pole. Koohii #1 If you need a story for a tree, then you need to be hit by one. Koohii #2 Pictograph of a tree. Primitives tree, wood 木綿(きわた): cotton 雑木(ざつぼく): various kinds of small trees, assorted trees 樹木(じゅもく): trees and shrubs, arbour 土木(どぼく): public works 木曜(もくよう): Thursday 植木(うえき): garden shrubs, trees, potted plant 材木(ざいもく): lumber, timber 大木(たいぼく): large tree 並木(なみき): roadside tree, row of trees 木材(もくざい): lumber, timber, wood 木綿(もめん): cotton 木(き): tree, wood, timber 木曜日(もくようび): Thursday Kunyomi: き、こ- Onyomi: ボク、モク Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 木石 (ぼくせき), 大木 (たいぼく), 土木 (どぼく), 木 (き)
grove Details Story Dictionary 林 grove Heisig's Learn this frame in connection with the next one. A grove is a small cluster of trees. Hence the simple reduplication of the kanji for tree gives us the grove. Koohii #1 A grove has at least two TREEs. Koohii #2 Two tree huggers saying that protecting the environment is grovey man...　RTK2:　リン　森林　しんりん(woods and forests). Primitives grove, tree, wood, tree2, wood2 林業(りんぎょう): forestry 山林(さんりん): mountain forest, mountains and forest 森林(しんりん): forest, woods 林(はやし): woods, forest Kunyomi: はやし Onyomi: リン Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 林 (はやし)	grove 林 画数8 208 Details Story Dictionary 林 grove Heisig's Learn this frame in connection with the next one. A grove is a small cluster of trees. Hence the simple reduplication of the kanji for tree gives us the grove. Koohii #1 A grove has at least two TREEs. Koohii #2 Two tree huggers saying that protecting the environment is grovey man...　RTK2:　リン　森林　しんりん(woods and forests). Primitives grove, tree, wood, tree2, wood2 林業(りんぎょう): forestry 山林(さんりん): mountain forest, mountains and forest 森林(しんりん): forest, woods 林(はやし): woods, forest Kunyomi: はやし Onyomi: リン Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 林 (はやし)
"forest Details Story Dictionary 森 forest Heisig's A forest is a large expanse of trees, or ""trees, trees everywhere,"" to adopt the expression we used back in frames 22 and 23. Koohii #1 The higher you go up a mountain the less trees there are, that´s so u dont mess up with their possition like i do. Koohii #2 Another tree planted within a grove turns it into a FOREST. Primitives forest, tree, wood, tree3, wood3 森林(しんりん): forest, woods 森(もり): forest Kunyomi: もり Onyomi: シン Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 森 (もり)"	"forest 森 画数12 209 Details Story Dictionary 森 forest Heisig's A forest is a large expanse of trees, or ""trees, trees everywhere,"" to adopt the expression we used back in frames 22 and 23. Koohii #1 The higher you go up a mountain the less trees there are, that´s so u dont mess up with their possition like i do. Koohii #2 Another tree planted within a grove turns it into a FOREST. Primitives forest, tree, wood, tree3, wood3 森林(しんりん): forest, woods 森(もり): forest Kunyomi: もり Onyomi: シン Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 森 (もり)"
"Japanese Judas-tree Details Story Dictionary 桂 Japanese Judas-tree Heisig's Unless you are a botanist, you are not likely to know what a Japanese Judas-tree looks like, and probably never even heard of it before, but the name is sufficiently odd to make remembering it easy. Using the primitives as our guide, we define it as a tree with ivy growing down its branches in the shape of a hangman's rope. Koohii #1 Simple mnemonic : ""The Japanese Judas-tree is the tree on which Judas hang himself to the ivy"" (Judas the traitor of the Christian bible). Just picture Judas hanging himself, using ivy as a if it was a rope. Koohii #2 A tree covered in poison ivy will quickly betray you, thus the name JAPANESE JUDAS-TREE. Primitives Japanese Judas tree, tree, wood, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, soil2, dirt2, ground2 Kunyomi: かつら Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"Japanese Judas-tree 桂 画数10 210 Details Story Dictionary 桂 Japanese Judas-tree Heisig's Unless you are a botanist, you are not likely to know what a Japanese Judas-tree looks like, and probably never even heard of it before, but the name is sufficiently odd to make remembering it easy. Using the primitives as our guide, we define it as a tree with ivy growing down its branches in the shape of a hangman's rope. Koohii #1 Simple mnemonic : ""The Japanese Judas-tree is the tree on which Judas hang himself to the ivy"" (Judas the traitor of the Christian bible). Just picture Judas hanging himself, using ivy as a if it was a rope. Koohii #2 A tree covered in poison ivy will quickly betray you, thus the name JAPANESE JUDAS-TREE. Primitives Japanese Judas tree, tree, wood, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, soil2, dirt2, ground2 Kunyomi: かつら Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"oak Details Story Dictionary 柏 oak Heisig's This kanji calls to mind the famous myth of the ""golden bough."" As you may recall, what made the sacred oak in the forest of Diana the Huntress outside of Rome ""golden"" were the white berries of the mistletoe that grew in the branches of the tree. When the light of the sun shone through them, they turned yellow and the branch to which they clung appeared to be made of gold. (If you don't know the story, take a break today and hunt it down in a dictionary of myth and fable. Even if you forget the kanji - which of course you won't - the story of the mistletoe and the fate it brought to Balder the Beautiful is most memorable.) Koohii #1 The wood from oak trees can be used to make barrels in which white wine is aged. What´s more, I love white wine with an oaky flavour... Koohii #2 An oak tree is white, from left to right! Primitives oak, tree, wood, white, dove Kunyomi: かしわ Onyomi: ハク、ヒャク、ビャク Lesson: 10 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"oak 柏 画数9 211 Details Story Dictionary 柏 oak Heisig's This kanji calls to mind the famous myth of the ""golden bough."" As you may recall, what made the sacred oak in the forest of Diana the Huntress outside of Rome ""golden"" were the white berries of the mistletoe that grew in the branches of the tree. When the light of the sun shone through them, they turned yellow and the branch to which they clung appeared to be made of gold. (If you don't know the story, take a break today and hunt it down in a dictionary of myth and fable. Even if you forget the kanji - which of course you won't - the story of the mistletoe and the fate it brought to Balder the Beautiful is most memorable.) Koohii #1 The wood from oak trees can be used to make barrels in which white wine is aged. What´s more, I love white wine with an oaky flavour... Koohii #2 An oak tree is white, from left to right! Primitives oak, tree, wood, white, dove Kunyomi: かしわ Onyomi: ハク、ヒャク、ビャク Lesson: 10 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:"
frame Details Story Dictionary 枠 frame Heisig's You might think of the frame this character refers to as the sort of frame we have created by drawing a dark line around this kanji and its explanation. Then think of that line as made of very thin wood; and finally note how each time the line bends it forms a 90° angle, thus giving us the nine and the ten. Koohii #1 wood at 90 (9 * 10) degrees. Koohii #2 Nine out of ten picture frames are made out of wood. The rest are made of metal or plastic. Primitives frame, tree, wood, ninety, nine, baseball, ten, needle 枠(わく): frame, slide Kunyomi: わく Onyomi: Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 枠 (わく)	frame 枠 画数8 212 Details Story Dictionary 枠 frame Heisig's You might think of the frame this character refers to as the sort of frame we have created by drawing a dark line around this kanji and its explanation. Then think of that line as made of very thin wood; and finally note how each time the line bends it forms a 90° angle, thus giving us the nine and the ten. Koohii #1 wood at 90 (9 * 10) degrees. Koohii #2 Nine out of ten picture frames are made out of wood. The rest are made of metal or plastic. Primitives frame, tree, wood, ninety, nine, baseball, ten, needle 枠(わく): frame, slide Kunyomi: わく Onyomi: Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 枠 (わく)
treetops Details Story Dictionary 梢 treetops Heisig's As the days grow shorter and shorter, or so the northern European myth goes, the fear grows that the sun will take its leave of us altogether, abandoning the world to total darkness. Fixing candles to the branches of evergreen trees, it was believed, would lure the sun back (like things attracting like things), whence the custom of the lighted tree that eventually found its way into our Christmas customs. The story is a lot longer and more complex than that, but it should help to fix the image of climbing high up into the treetops to fix candles on the tree. Koohii #1 At Christmas time, on the treetops, people used to place great big candles (Now we usually place a star instead). Koohii #2 If you cut off the treetops, they still resemble the trees they used to be part of. Treetops=tree resemblance. Primitives treetops, tree, wood, resemblance, spark, candle, small, little, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 梢(こずえ): treetop Kunyomi: こずえ、くすのき Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	treetops 梢 画数11 213 Details Story Dictionary 梢 treetops Heisig's As the days grow shorter and shorter, or so the northern European myth goes, the fear grows that the sun will take its leave of us altogether, abandoning the world to total darkness. Fixing candles to the branches of evergreen trees, it was believed, would lure the sun back (like things attracting like things), whence the custom of the lighted tree that eventually found its way into our Christmas customs. The story is a lot longer and more complex than that, but it should help to fix the image of climbing high up into the treetops to fix candles on the tree. Koohii #1 At Christmas time, on the treetops, people used to place great big candles (Now we usually place a star instead). Koohii #2 If you cut off the treetops, they still resemble the trees they used to be part of. Treetops=tree resemblance. Primitives treetops, tree, wood, resemblance, spark, candle, small, little, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 梢(こずえ): treetop Kunyomi: こずえ、くすのき Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
shelf Details Story Dictionary 棚 shelf My Story A shelf is a *wooden* {木} *companion*{朋} to books. Koohii #1 A shelf is a wooden companion to books. Koohii #2 I think of an Otaku, with a wooden shelf full of anime action figure statures, who are sadly his only companions. Primitives shelf, tree, wood, companion, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, moon2, month2, flesh, 2, part of the body2 戸棚(とだな): cupboard, locker, closet, wardrobe 棚(たな): shelf 本棚(ほんだな): bookshelves Kunyomi: たな、-だな Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 棚 (たな)	shelf 棚 画数12 214 Details Story Dictionary 棚 shelf My Story A shelf is a *wooden* {木} *companion*{朋} to books. Koohii #1 A shelf is a wooden companion to books. Koohii #2 I think of an Otaku, with a wooden shelf full of anime action figure statures, who are sadly his only companions. Primitives shelf, tree, wood, companion, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, moon2, month2, flesh, 2, part of the body2 戸棚(とだな): cupboard, locker, closet, wardrobe 棚(たな): shelf 本棚(ほんだな): bookshelves Kunyomi: たな、-だな Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 棚 (たな)
apricot Details Story Dictionary 杏 apricot Heisig's Since apricots can be eaten just as they fall from the trees, picture this mouth agape at the bottom of a tree (just as the elements have it), waiting for apricots to fall into it. Koohii #1 From the tree straight into the mouth is the best way to eat an APRICOT! Koohii #2 Imagine Totoro sleeping under his tree. As he snores a giant apricot falls nicely into his open mouth and he emits a giant burp of satisfaction. I can hear that music alreay....to - to to - to - ro... Primitives apricot, tree, wood, mouth Kunyomi: あんず Onyomi: キョウ、アン、コウ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	apricot 杏 画数7 215 Details Story Dictionary 杏 apricot Heisig's Since apricots can be eaten just as they fall from the trees, picture this mouth agape at the bottom of a tree (just as the elements have it), waiting for apricots to fall into it. Koohii #1 From the tree straight into the mouth is the best way to eat an APRICOT! Koohii #2 Imagine Totoro sleeping under his tree. As he snores a giant apricot falls nicely into his open mouth and he emits a giant burp of satisfaction. I can hear that music alreay....to - to to - to - ro... Primitives apricot, tree, wood, mouth Kunyomi: あんず Onyomi: キョウ、アン、コウ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"paulownia Details Story Dictionary 桐 paulownia Heisig's Since you probably don't know what a paulownia tree is, we shall let the key word suggest the phrase ""the Little Brothers of St. Paulownia."" It is a short step to associate the tree with the monks to its right. (For the curious, the name of this oriental tree really comes from a Russian princess, Anna Pavlovna.) Koohii #1 In Japan, a paulownia (きり）is known as the ""princess tree"". It was once a traditional TREE planted at the SAME time as the birth of a daughter. It would grow fast enough that, at the time of her wedding, it could be used to make a dresser as a wedding present for her. Koohii #2 Paulownia is a Japanese tree which looks same as any other tree. Primitives paulownia, tree, wood, same, monks, hood, one, mouth 桐(きり): paulownia tree Kunyomi: きり Onyomi: トウ、ドウ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"paulownia 桐 画数10 216 Details Story Dictionary 桐 paulownia Heisig's Since you probably don't know what a paulownia tree is, we shall let the key word suggest the phrase ""the Little Brothers of St. Paulownia."" It is a short step to associate the tree with the monks to its right. (For the curious, the name of this oriental tree really comes from a Russian princess, Anna Pavlovna.) Koohii #1 In Japan, a paulownia (きり）is known as the ""princess tree"". It was once a traditional TREE planted at the SAME time as the birth of a daughter. It would grow fast enough that, at the time of her wedding, it could be used to make a dresser as a wedding present for her. Koohii #2 Paulownia is a Japanese tree which looks same as any other tree. Primitives paulownia, tree, wood, same, monks, hood, one, mouth 桐(きり): paulownia tree Kunyomi: きり Onyomi: トウ、ドウ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
plant Details Story Dictionary 植 plant Heisig's You have no doubt seen how people practicing the Japanese art of bonsai take those helpless little saplings and twist them into crippled dwarves before they have a chance to grow up as they should. The more proper way to plant a young tree and give it a fair shake in life is to set it into the earth in such a way that it can grow up straight. Koohii #1 Plants don´t become trees straightaway. Koohii #2 When you plant plants, you use a piece of WOOD to make the plant grow STRAIGHT. Primitives plant, tree, wood, straightaway, ten, needle, eye, fishhook 植わる(うわる): to be planted 植民地(しょくみんち): colony 植木(うえき): garden shrubs, trees, potted plant 植物(しょくぶつ): plant, vegetation 田植え(たうえ): rice planting 植える(うえる): plant Kunyomi: う.える、う.わる Onyomi: ショク Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 植える (う.える), 植わる (う.わる)	plant 植 画数12 217 Details Story Dictionary 植 plant Heisig's You have no doubt seen how people practicing the Japanese art of bonsai take those helpless little saplings and twist them into crippled dwarves before they have a chance to grow up as they should. The more proper way to plant a young tree and give it a fair shake in life is to set it into the earth in such a way that it can grow up straight. Koohii #1 Plants don´t become trees straightaway. Koohii #2 When you plant plants, you use a piece of WOOD to make the plant grow STRAIGHT. Primitives plant, tree, wood, straightaway, ten, needle, eye, fishhook 植わる(うわる): to be planted 植民地(しょくみんち): colony 植木(うえき): garden shrubs, trees, potted plant 植物(しょくぶつ): plant, vegetation 田植え(たうえ): rice planting 植える(うえる): plant Kunyomi: う.える、う.わる Onyomi: ショク Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 植える (う.える), 植わる (う.わる)
chair Details Story Dictionary 椅 chair My Story A *tree*, a really *big* one was made into a chair; it was *possible* in the end. *Possible*: Nail with a mouth under it Koohii #1 To the Japanese, the first time they saw a chair, it looked like a strange use of wood! Probably why they still like to sit on the floor... Koohii #2 A strange kind of tree grows in the shape of a chair. Primitives chair, tree, wood, strange, large, St. Bernard, street, nail, spike, mouth 椅子(いす): chair Kunyomi: Onyomi: イ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	chair 椅 画数12 218 Details Story Dictionary 椅 chair My Story A *tree*, a really *big* one was made into a chair; it was *possible* in the end. *Possible*: Nail with a mouth under it Koohii #1 To the Japanese, the first time they saw a chair, it looked like a strange use of wood! Probably why they still like to sit on the floor... Koohii #2 A strange kind of tree grows in the shape of a chair. Primitives chair, tree, wood, strange, large, St. Bernard, street, nail, spike, mouth 椅子(いす): chair Kunyomi: Onyomi: イ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
wither Details Story Dictionary 枯 wither Heisig's What makes a tree begin to wither up, and perhaps even die, is a kind of arteriosclerosis that keeps its sap from flowing freely. Usually this is due to simple old age, as this character shows us. Be sure to picture a wrinkled old tree, withering away in a retirement center so that the commonsense explanation does not take over. Koohii #1 A tree withers away as it gets old. Koohii #2 When flowers get old they suffer (frame 225), but old trees just WITHER away painlessly. (Picture flowers crying in pain, but a dried up tree silent and sad). Primitives wither, tree, wood, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 枯れる(かれる): wither, die (plant) Kunyomi: か.れる、か.らす Onyomi: コ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 枯らす (か.らす), 枯れる (か.れる)	wither 枯 画数9 219 Details Story Dictionary 枯 wither Heisig's What makes a tree begin to wither up, and perhaps even die, is a kind of arteriosclerosis that keeps its sap from flowing freely. Usually this is due to simple old age, as this character shows us. Be sure to picture a wrinkled old tree, withering away in a retirement center so that the commonsense explanation does not take over. Koohii #1 A tree withers away as it gets old. Koohii #2 When flowers get old they suffer (frame 225), but old trees just WITHER away painlessly. (Picture flowers crying in pain, but a dried up tree silent and sad). Primitives wither, tree, wood, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 枯れる(かれる): wither, die (plant) Kunyomi: か.れる、か.らす Onyomi: コ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 枯らす (か.らす), 枯れる (か.れる)
crude Details Story Dictionary 朴 crude Heisig's As all magicians who have passed their apprenticeship know, one makes one's wand out of a hazel branch and is careful not to alter the natural form of the wood. For the magic of the wand derives its power from its association with the hidden laws of nature, and needs therefore to be kept in its crude, natural state. Koohii #1 Wooden wands are the crudest. They are nothng compared to their carbon fibre equivilents. Koohii #2 A beginner magician starts with a crude wooden magic wand. Later he´ll upgrade to magicite, of course. Primitives crude, tree, wood, magic wand, augury 素朴(そぼく): simplicity, artlessness, naivete Kunyomi: ほう、ほお、えのき Onyomi: ボク Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	crude 朴 画数6 220 Details Story Dictionary 朴 crude Heisig's As all magicians who have passed their apprenticeship know, one makes one's wand out of a hazel branch and is careful not to alter the natural form of the wood. For the magic of the wand derives its power from its association with the hidden laws of nature, and needs therefore to be kept in its crude, natural state. Koohii #1 Wooden wands are the crudest. They are nothng compared to their carbon fibre equivilents. Koohii #2 A beginner magician starts with a crude wooden magic wand. Later he´ll upgrade to magicite, of course. Primitives crude, tree, wood, magic wand, augury 素朴(そぼく): simplicity, artlessness, naivete Kunyomi: ほう、ほお、えのき Onyomi: ボク Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
town Details Story Dictionary 村 town Heisig's The character for village was associated with rice fields (Frame 96). That for town, a step up on the evolutionary path to cities, shows a circle of trees glued together to measure off the confines of a town. Koohii #1 If you´ve ever played an old 8 bit or 16 bit RPG, like Dragon Warrior or Final Fantasy or Inindou, you´ll remember that every town was all bordered off by a line of trees with no space in between to get out through. Imagine that the trees were glued together so you could only exit town through the main or side gates, (so you couldn´t escape the important scripted scenes.). Koohii #2 Pfft. At it´s core, a town is just a bunch of wood glued together. Edit - Stop starring this piece of crap story! xD. Primitives town, tree, wood, measure, glue 漁村(ぎょそん): fishing village 農村(のうそん): agricultural community, farm village, rural 村(むら): village Kunyomi: むら Onyomi: ソン Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 村 (むら)	town 村 画数7 221 Details Story Dictionary 村 town Heisig's The character for village was associated with rice fields (Frame 96). That for town, a step up on the evolutionary path to cities, shows a circle of trees glued together to measure off the confines of a town. Koohii #1 If you´ve ever played an old 8 bit or 16 bit RPG, like Dragon Warrior or Final Fantasy or Inindou, you´ll remember that every town was all bordered off by a line of trees with no space in between to get out through. Imagine that the trees were glued together so you could only exit town through the main or side gates, (so you couldn´t escape the important scripted scenes.). Koohii #2 Pfft. At it´s core, a town is just a bunch of wood glued together. Edit - Stop starring this piece of crap story! xD. Primitives town, tree, wood, measure, glue 漁村(ぎょそん): fishing village 農村(のうそん): agricultural community, farm village, rural 村(むら): village Kunyomi: むら Onyomi: ソン Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 村 (むら)
"inter- / partner Details Story Dictionary 相 inter- / partner My Story During intercourse, I accidentally put my *wood* in my #partner#'s *eye* be careful of: {祖} ancestor Koohii #1 The prime minister is having inter-course behind that tree! All you can see are his eyes poking out from the righthand-side of the tree. Koohii #2 ソウ/ショウ/あ INTER /MUTUAL /ASPECT /PHASE /MINISTER. ""Long ago, before there were telephones, people living far from one another would climb trees to eye each other´s aspects and inter-act for their mutual benefit. Those who did this best became government ministers, with the top person (perhaps the one with the longest neck (首, neck (#70)) becoming the prime minister 「首相 (しゅしょう)"". Primitives inter-, tree, wood, eye 相(あい): together, mutually, fellow 相変わらず(あいかわらず): as ever, as usual, the same 相対(あいたい): confrontation, facing, between ourselves, no third party, tete-a-tete 外相(がいしょう): Foreign Minister 真相(しんそう): truth, real situation 相応(そうおう): suitability, fitness 蔵相(ぞうしょう): Minister of Finance 相談(そうだん): consultation, discussion 相場(そうば): market price, speculation, estimation 相応しい(ふさわしい): appropriate 様相(ようそう): aspect 相手(あいて): companion, partner, company, other party, addressee 首相(しゅしょう): Prime Minister, Chancellor (Germany, Austria, etc.) 相撲(すもう): sumo wrestling 相違(そうい): difference, discrepancy, variation 相互(そうご): mutual, reciprocal 相続(そうぞく): succession, inheritance 相当(そうとう): suitable, fair, tolerable, proper, extremely Kunyomi: あい- Onyomi: ソウ、ショウ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 相当 (そうとう), 相談 (そうだん), 真相 (しんそう), 相 (あい)"	"inter- / partner 相 画数9 222 Details Story Dictionary 相 inter- / partner My Story During intercourse, I accidentally put my *wood* in my #partner#'s *eye* be careful of: {祖} ancestor Koohii #1 The prime minister is having inter-course behind that tree! All you can see are his eyes poking out from the righthand-side of the tree. Koohii #2 ソウ/ショウ/あ INTER /MUTUAL /ASPECT /PHASE /MINISTER. ""Long ago, before there were telephones, people living far from one another would climb trees to eye each other´s aspects and inter-act for their mutual benefit. Those who did this best became government ministers, with the top person (perhaps the one with the longest neck (首, neck (#70)) becoming the prime minister 「首相 (しゅしょう)"". Primitives inter-, tree, wood, eye 相(あい): together, mutually, fellow 相変わらず(あいかわらず): as ever, as usual, the same 相対(あいたい): confrontation, facing, between ourselves, no third party, tete-a-tete 外相(がいしょう): Foreign Minister 真相(しんそう): truth, real situation 相応(そうおう): suitability, fitness 蔵相(ぞうしょう): Minister of Finance 相談(そうだん): consultation, discussion 相場(そうば): market price, speculation, estimation 相応しい(ふさわしい): appropriate 様相(ようそう): aspect 相手(あいて): companion, partner, company, other party, addressee 首相(しゅしょう): Prime Minister, Chancellor (Germany, Austria, etc.) 相撲(すもう): sumo wrestling 相違(そうい): difference, discrepancy, variation 相互(そうご): mutual, reciprocal 相続(そうぞく): succession, inheritance 相当(そうとう): suitable, fair, tolerable, proper, extremely Kunyomi: あい- Onyomi: ソウ、ショウ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 相当 (そうとう), 相談 (そうだん), 真相 (しんそう), 相 (あい)"
desk Details Story Dictionary 机 desk Heisig's We need to fix imagination here on two things to learn the kanji for desk: the wonderful rough wood of which it has been hewn and the wind that blows across it, sending your papers flying all over the room. These two elements, written in that order, dictate how to write the character. Koohii #1 My wooden desk is so messy, it looks like a strong wind blew my things all over it. Koohii #2 Whenever I´m alone at my computer desk, I´m always getting wood and breaking wind. Primitives desk, tree, wood, wind 机(つくえ): desk Kunyomi: つくえ Onyomi: キ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 机 (つくえ)	desk 机 画数6 223 Details Story Dictionary 机 desk Heisig's We need to fix imagination here on two things to learn the kanji for desk: the wonderful rough wood of which it has been hewn and the wind that blows across it, sending your papers flying all over the room. These two elements, written in that order, dictate how to write the character. Koohii #1 My wooden desk is so messy, it looks like a strong wind blew my things all over it. Koohii #2 Whenever I´m alone at my computer desk, I´m always getting wood and breaking wind. Primitives desk, tree, wood, wind 机(つくえ): desk Kunyomi: つくえ Onyomi: キ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 机 (つくえ)
"book Details Story Dictionary 本 book Heisig's Recalling that books are made of paper, and paper made of trees, one might think of a book as a slice of a tree. Can you seethe ""cross-cut"" in the trunk of the tree? Picture it as a chainsaw cutting you out a few books with which to start your own private library. Koohii #1 The origin of a book is paper made out of TREEs. ONE tree can make many books. Koohii #2 An axe cutting a tree to make books. Primitives book, tree, wood, one 脚本(きゃくほん): scenario 根本(こんぽん): origin, source, foundation, root, base, principle 台本(だいほん): libretto, scenario 手本(てほん): model, pattern 本格(ほんかく): propriety, fundamental rules 本館(ほんかん): main building 本気(ほんき): seriousness, truth, sanctity 本質(ほんしつ): essence, true nature, reality 本体(ほんたい): substance, real form, object of worship 本当(ほんとう): truth, reality 本音(ほんね): real intention, motive 本の(ほんの): mere, only, just 本能(ほんのう): instinct 本場(ほんば): home, habitat, center, best place, genuine 本文(ほんぶん): text (of document), body (of letter) 本名(ほんみょう): real name 基本(きほん): foundation, basis, standard 資本(しほん): funds, capital 標本(ひょうほん): example, specimen 本人(ほんにん): the person himself 本部(ほんぶ): headquarters 本物(ほんもの): genuine article 本来(ほんらい): essentially, naturally, by nature, in (and of) itself, originally 見本(みほん): sample 本(ほん): book 本棚(ほんだな): bookshelves Kunyomi: もと Onyomi: ホン Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 本 (もと)"	"book 本 画数5 224 Details Story Dictionary 本 book Heisig's Recalling that books are made of paper, and paper made of trees, one might think of a book as a slice of a tree. Can you seethe ""cross-cut"" in the trunk of the tree? Picture it as a chainsaw cutting you out a few books with which to start your own private library. Koohii #1 The origin of a book is paper made out of TREEs. ONE tree can make many books. Koohii #2 An axe cutting a tree to make books. Primitives book, tree, wood, one 脚本(きゃくほん): scenario 根本(こんぽん): origin, source, foundation, root, base, principle 台本(だいほん): libretto, scenario 手本(てほん): model, pattern 本格(ほんかく): propriety, fundamental rules 本館(ほんかん): main building 本気(ほんき): seriousness, truth, sanctity 本質(ほんしつ): essence, true nature, reality 本体(ほんたい): substance, real form, object of worship 本当(ほんとう): truth, reality 本音(ほんね): real intention, motive 本の(ほんの): mere, only, just 本能(ほんのう): instinct 本場(ほんば): home, habitat, center, best place, genuine 本文(ほんぶん): text (of document), body (of letter) 本名(ほんみょう): real name 基本(きほん): foundation, basis, standard 資本(しほん): funds, capital 標本(ひょうほん): example, specimen 本人(ほんにん): the person himself 本部(ほんぶ): headquarters 本物(ほんもの): genuine article 本来(ほんらい): essentially, naturally, by nature, in (and of) itself, originally 見本(みほん): sample 本(ほん): book 本棚(ほんだな): bookshelves Kunyomi: もと Onyomi: ホン Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 本 (もと)"
"tag Details Story Dictionary 札 tag Heisig's The tags you see hanging on trees in public places in Japan are helpful to identify what sort of trees they are. Next time you see one, imagine the bit of wire that fixes the tag to the branch as a large fishhook. REALLY imagine it, illogical as it is, and you will never have trouble with this kanji again. Koohii #1 Botanists like to identify TREEs by HOOKing tags on them. Koohii #2 Might be good to note that this is also the Kanji for ""Paper Money"" w/ the reading さつ (千円札＝1000 Yen paper bill)... It also takes on the meaning of Playing Card with the reading of ふだ as in 花札 (Hanafuda cards) or トランプの札 (""trump"" playing cards). For the tag meaning I like to think of wooden tags hung on hooks from trees... but for these other meanings I like to think of both paper money and playing cards as paper (tree) products with the ability to ""hook you in"" so to speak. Primitives tag, tree, wood, fishhook 名札(なふだ): name plate, name tag 改札(かいさつ): examination of tickets 札(さつ): paper money Kunyomi: ふだ Onyomi: サツ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 札 (ふだ)"	"tag 札 画数5 225 Details Story Dictionary 札 tag Heisig's The tags you see hanging on trees in public places in Japan are helpful to identify what sort of trees they are. Next time you see one, imagine the bit of wire that fixes the tag to the branch as a large fishhook. REALLY imagine it, illogical as it is, and you will never have trouble with this kanji again. Koohii #1 Botanists like to identify TREEs by HOOKing tags on them. Koohii #2 Might be good to note that this is also the Kanji for ""Paper Money"" w/ the reading さつ (千円札＝1000 Yen paper bill)... It also takes on the meaning of Playing Card with the reading of ふだ as in 花札 (Hanafuda cards) or トランプの札 (""trump"" playing cards). For the tag meaning I like to think of wooden tags hung on hooks from trees... but for these other meanings I like to think of both paper money and playing cards as paper (tree) products with the ability to ""hook you in"" so to speak. Primitives tag, tree, wood, fishhook 名札(なふだ): name plate, name tag 改札(かいさつ): examination of tickets 札(さつ): paper money Kunyomi: ふだ Onyomi: サツ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 札 (ふだ)"
calendar Details Story Dictionary 暦 calendar Heisig's Look at this character in reverse order, from bottom up. First we see the primitive for days, an appropriate enough way to begin a calendar. Next we see a grove of trees growing under a cliff. The laws of nature being what they are, the trees would be stunted under such conditions, unless they were strong enough to keep growing upwards until they passed through the layers of rock and soil, right up to the surface. Now imagine that in those little boxes marking off the days on your wall calendar, you see that very process taking place step by step: 365 or so time-lapse pictures of that grove of trees each month, from January under the cliff to December on top of the cliff. The story is not as complex as it sounds, particularly if you happen to have a calendar nearby and can flip through it with this image in mind. Koohii #1 Years-Months-Days: It takes many years for a cliff to form or erode. A tree takes many months to grow. But days pass by regularly - so in this way, we see the movement of time such as with a CALENDAR. Koohii #2 This is just a picture of a wall calendar with a page for each month. The bottom half has the grid of days, the top half has a pretty picture of a forest this month. The cliff radical here is the top and left edges of the paper. You can see the paper curling up at the lower left where a breeze is trying to turn the page. Primitives calendar, cliff, grove, tree, wood, sun, day, tree2, wood2 還暦(かんれき): 60th birthday 暦(こよみ): calendar, almanac 西暦(せいれき): Christian Era, Anno Domini (A.D.) Kunyomi: こよみ、りゃく Onyomi: レキ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 暦 (こよみ)	calendar 暦 画数14 226 Details Story Dictionary 暦 calendar Heisig's Look at this character in reverse order, from bottom up. First we see the primitive for days, an appropriate enough way to begin a calendar. Next we see a grove of trees growing under a cliff. The laws of nature being what they are, the trees would be stunted under such conditions, unless they were strong enough to keep growing upwards until they passed through the layers of rock and soil, right up to the surface. Now imagine that in those little boxes marking off the days on your wall calendar, you see that very process taking place step by step: 365 or so time-lapse pictures of that grove of trees each month, from January under the cliff to December on top of the cliff. The story is not as complex as it sounds, particularly if you happen to have a calendar nearby and can flip through it with this image in mind. Koohii #1 Years-Months-Days: It takes many years for a cliff to form or erode. A tree takes many months to grow. But days pass by regularly - so in this way, we see the movement of time such as with a CALENDAR. Koohii #2 This is just a picture of a wall calendar with a page for each month. The bottom half has the grid of days, the top half has a pretty picture of a forest this month. The cliff radical here is the top and left edges of the paper. You can see the paper curling up at the lower left where a breeze is trying to turn the page. Primitives calendar, cliff, grove, tree, wood, sun, day, tree2, wood2 還暦(かんれき): 60th birthday 暦(こよみ): calendar, almanac 西暦(せいれき): Christian Era, Anno Domini (A.D.) Kunyomi: こよみ、りゃく Onyomi: レキ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 暦 (こよみ)
guide/proposal Details Story Dictionary 案 guide/proposal My Story [Cheap/safe {安} + Tree] I can #guide# you *safely/cheaply* to the *tree* I plan to RELAX on top of that TREE. Koohii #1 I plan to RELAX on top of that TREE. Koohii #2 If you bring a woman to your house, generally its not a good plan to stick your wood up her bottom, she may scream in pain あん! Primitives plan, relax, house, woman, tree, wood 案じる(あんじる): to be anxious, to ponder 案の定(あんのじょう): sure enough, as usual 議案(ぎあん): legislative bill 法案(ほうあん): bill (law) 案(あん): plan, suffix meaning draft 案外(あんがい): unexpectedly 案内(あんない): information, guidance 提案(ていあん): proposal, proposition, suggestion 答案(とうあん): examination paper, examination script Kunyomi: つくえ Onyomi: アン Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	guide/proposal 案 画数10 227 Details Story Dictionary 案 guide/proposal My Story [Cheap/safe {安} + Tree] I can #guide# you *safely/cheaply* to the *tree* I plan to RELAX on top of that TREE. Koohii #1 I plan to RELAX on top of that TREE. Koohii #2 If you bring a woman to your house, generally its not a good plan to stick your wood up her bottom, she may scream in pain あん! Primitives plan, relax, house, woman, tree, wood 案じる(あんじる): to be anxious, to ponder 案の定(あんのじょう): sure enough, as usual 議案(ぎあん): legislative bill 法案(ほうあん): bill (law) 案(あん): plan, suffix meaning draft 案外(あんがい): unexpectedly 案内(あんない): information, guidance 提案(ていあん): proposal, proposition, suggestion 答案(とうあん): examination paper, examination script Kunyomi: つくえ Onyomi: アン Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"parch Details Story Dictionary 燥 parch Heisig's Parchment, made from animal skins, was the most common form of writing material used until the beginning of the nineteenth century. When paper took over, a method was devised to make artificial parchment from wood pulp. The fire at the left and in the ""strong"" position serves to remind us of the root word, ""parch,"" since nothing dries, puckers, wrinkles, and scorches quite like fire. And here is how we put it all together. Take a sheet of paper (a ""wood-good,""), wet it, and hold it over a hearth in your mind's eye. Now watch as it parches the paper, leaving it with a strange and bumpy surface resembling parchment. Koohii #1 Tip: goods + wood/tree : This combination of primitives appears four times in Heisig, so it´s worthwhile giving it a name. I suggest ""furniture"" (a common type of wooden goods). REF: parch (FRAME 215) , maneuver (#671), winding (#1369), seaweed (#2035). Story: It´s been so parched recently that your furniture suddenly catches fire. Koohii #2 The parchment says you need fire to make goods from trees. Primitives parch, fire, furniture, wooden goods, mouth, tree, wood, mouth3 乾燥(かんそう): dry, arid, dehydrated, insipid Kunyomi: はしゃ.ぐ Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"parch 燥 画数17 228 Details Story Dictionary 燥 parch Heisig's Parchment, made from animal skins, was the most common form of writing material used until the beginning of the nineteenth century. When paper took over, a method was devised to make artificial parchment from wood pulp. The fire at the left and in the ""strong"" position serves to remind us of the root word, ""parch,"" since nothing dries, puckers, wrinkles, and scorches quite like fire. And here is how we put it all together. Take a sheet of paper (a ""wood-good,""), wet it, and hold it over a hearth in your mind's eye. Now watch as it parches the paper, leaving it with a strange and bumpy surface resembling parchment. Koohii #1 Tip: goods + wood/tree : This combination of primitives appears four times in Heisig, so it´s worthwhile giving it a name. I suggest ""furniture"" (a common type of wooden goods). REF: parch (FRAME 215) , maneuver (#671), winding (#1369), seaweed (#2035). Story: It´s been so parched recently that your furniture suddenly catches fire. Koohii #2 The parchment says you need fire to make goods from trees. Primitives parch, fire, furniture, wooden goods, mouth, tree, wood, mouth3 乾燥(かんそう): dry, arid, dehydrated, insipid Kunyomi: はしゃ.ぐ Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
not yet Details Story Dictionary 未 not yet Heisig's As the key word suggests, this kanji has to do with something not quite over and done with. More concretely, it shows us a tree that is not yet fully grown. The extra short stroke in the upper branches shows new branches spreading out, leaving one with the feeling that the tree has a ways to go yet before it reaches maturity. In other words, the kanji conveys its meaning pictographically, playing on the earlier pictograph of the tree. Koohii #1 I believe a better version of that by mameha1977: [Cheat] Remember these as a set: The tree (木) does not yet (未) have exremities (末) of vermilion (朱). Koohii #2 [Cheat] Remember these as a set: The tree (木) is not yet (末) vermilion (朱). Primitives not yet, tree, wood, one 未だ(いまだ): as yet, hitherto, not yet (neg) 未(ひつじ): eighth sign of Chinese zodiac (The Ram 1pm-3pm south-southwest June) 未開(みかい): savage land, backward region, uncivilized 未婚(みこん): unmarried 未熟(みじゅく): inexperience, unripeness, raw, unskilled, immature, inexperienced 未知(みち): not yet known 未定(みてい): not yet fixed, undecided, pending 未練(みれん): lingering affection, attachment, regret(s), reluctance 未だ(まだ): yet, still, more, besides 未満(みまん): less than, insufficient 未来(みらい): future tense, the future (usually distant), the world to come Kunyomi: いま.だ、ま.だ、ひつじ Onyomi: ミ、ビ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	not yet 未 画数5 229 Details Story Dictionary 未 not yet Heisig's As the key word suggests, this kanji has to do with something not quite over and done with. More concretely, it shows us a tree that is not yet fully grown. The extra short stroke in the upper branches shows new branches spreading out, leaving one with the feeling that the tree has a ways to go yet before it reaches maturity. In other words, the kanji conveys its meaning pictographically, playing on the earlier pictograph of the tree. Koohii #1 I believe a better version of that by mameha1977: [Cheat] Remember these as a set: The tree (木) does not yet (未) have exremities (末) of vermilion (朱). Koohii #2 [Cheat] Remember these as a set: The tree (木) is not yet (末) vermilion (朱). Primitives not yet, tree, wood, one 未だ(いまだ): as yet, hitherto, not yet (neg) 未(ひつじ): eighth sign of Chinese zodiac (The Ram 1pm-3pm south-southwest June) 未開(みかい): savage land, backward region, uncivilized 未婚(みこん): unmarried 未熟(みじゅく): inexperience, unripeness, raw, unskilled, immature, inexperienced 未知(みち): not yet known 未定(みてい): not yet fixed, undecided, pending 未練(みれん): lingering affection, attachment, regret(s), reluctance 未だ(まだ): yet, still, more, besides 未満(みまん): less than, insufficient 未来(みらい): future tense, the future (usually distant), the world to come Kunyomi: いま.だ、ま.だ、ひつじ Onyomi: ミ、ビ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
extremity Details Story Dictionary 末 extremity Heisig's This character is best learned in connection with that of the previous frame. The first stroke shows a branch that is longer than the main branch, indicating that the tree has reached the extremity of its growth, so that its branches stop spreading and start drooping downwards. Be sure to keep this imagery in mind, to avoid confusing this key word with synonyms that will appear later. Koohii #1 The tree has reached the extremity of its growth and no longer produces small, new branches at the top. Instead the existing top branch just grows longer and longer. Koohii #2 There are no great stories for this one yet, and I always forget it.. So, let´s try something ridiculous: The man lived by himself in the wilderness, with no females within miles. So, his only way of relief was to stick his extremity into a small hole in a tree.. The poor guy. Which horizontal stroke is the extremity? The longer one or the shorter one? That, my friends, is up to your own imaginations. I´d prefer not to dwell on that point, myself. ;). Primitives extremity, tree, wood, one 末(うら): top end, tip 期末(きまつ): end of term 始末(しまつ): management, dealing, settlement, cleaning up afterwards 粉末(ふんまつ): fine powder 末期(まっき): closing years (period days), last stage 月末(げつまつ): end of the month 末(すえ): end, close, future, finally, tip, top, trivialities, posterity, youngest child 末っ子(すえっこ): youngest child 粗末(そまつ): crude, rough, plain, humble Kunyomi: すえ Onyomi: マツ、バツ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 末代 (まつだい), 本末 (ほんまつ), 粉末 (ふんまつ), 末 (すえ)	extremity 末 画数5 230 Details Story Dictionary 末 extremity Heisig's This character is best learned in connection with that of the previous frame. The first stroke shows a branch that is longer than the main branch, indicating that the tree has reached the extremity of its growth, so that its branches stop spreading and start drooping downwards. Be sure to keep this imagery in mind, to avoid confusing this key word with synonyms that will appear later. Koohii #1 The tree has reached the extremity of its growth and no longer produces small, new branches at the top. Instead the existing top branch just grows longer and longer. Koohii #2 There are no great stories for this one yet, and I always forget it.. So, let´s try something ridiculous: The man lived by himself in the wilderness, with no females within miles. So, his only way of relief was to stick his extremity into a small hole in a tree.. The poor guy. Which horizontal stroke is the extremity? The longer one or the shorter one? That, my friends, is up to your own imaginations. I´d prefer not to dwell on that point, myself. ;). Primitives extremity, tree, wood, one 末(うら): top end, tip 期末(きまつ): end of term 始末(しまつ): management, dealing, settlement, cleaning up afterwards 粉末(ふんまつ): fine powder 末期(まっき): closing years (period days), last stage 月末(げつまつ): end of the month 末(すえ): end, close, future, finally, tip, top, trivialities, posterity, youngest child 末っ子(すえっこ): youngest child 粗末(そまつ): crude, rough, plain, humble Kunyomi: すえ Onyomi: マツ、バツ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 末代 (まつだい), 本末 (ほんまつ), 粉末 (ふんまつ), 末 (すえ)
obscure Details Story Dictionary 昧 obscure Heisig's The most obscure ideas are those that the sun of reason has not yet dawned on. Be sure to give the sun a professorial demeanor, complete with spectacles and a pipe. Koohii #1 Something that is obscure has not yet been brought before the light of day. Koohii #2 ´Can´t you go outside and get some sun?´ ´Not yet, I have to learn all these obscure RTK3 kanji!´. Primitives obscure, sun, not yet, one, tree, wood 曖昧(あいまい): vague, ambiguous Kunyomi: くら.い、むさぼ.る Onyomi: マイ、バイ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	obscure 昧 画数9 231 Details Story Dictionary 昧 obscure Heisig's The most obscure ideas are those that the sun of reason has not yet dawned on. Be sure to give the sun a professorial demeanor, complete with spectacles and a pipe. Koohii #1 Something that is obscure has not yet been brought before the light of day. Koohii #2 ´Can´t you go outside and get some sun?´ ´Not yet, I have to learn all these obscure RTK3 kanji!´. Primitives obscure, sun, not yet, one, tree, wood 曖昧(あいまい): vague, ambiguous Kunyomi: くら.い、むさぼ.る Onyomi: マイ、バイ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
splash Details Story Dictionary 沫 splash Heisig's The splash this kanji refers to is the dash of water against the rocks, with all the foam and spray that this creates. If you think of a splash in this sense as a wave that has run its full course and reached its extremity, namely the seashore, and if you think of it pictorially in your mind's eye, this somewhat rare (but oh so-easy-to-learn) kanji is yours for good. Koohii #1 The extremity of a wave of water is the splash. Koohii #2 A splash is WATER that has reached its EXTREMITY. Primitives splash, water, water droplets, water pistol, extremity, one, tree, wood Kunyomi: あわ、しぶき、つばき Onyomi: マツ、バツ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:	splash 沫 画数8 232 Details Story Dictionary 沫 splash Heisig's The splash this kanji refers to is the dash of water against the rocks, with all the foam and spray that this creates. If you think of a splash in this sense as a wave that has run its full course and reached its extremity, namely the seashore, and if you think of it pictorially in your mind's eye, this somewhat rare (but oh so-easy-to-learn) kanji is yours for good. Koohii #1 The extremity of a wave of water is the splash. Koohii #2 A splash is WATER that has reached its EXTREMITY. Primitives splash, water, water droplets, water pistol, extremity, one, tree, wood Kunyomi: あわ、しぶき、つばき Onyomi: マツ、バツ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:
flavor Details Story Dictionary 味 flavor Heisig's When a tree has not yet finished growing, it produces fruit with a full flavor. When the official taster (the professional mouth to the left) determines that full flavor has been reached, the tree is pruned back so that it remains permanently not yet grown. A neat little agricultural trick and an easy to way see the sense of flavor hidden in this character. Koohii #1 My mouth has not yet swallowed the food because the flavor is so delicious that I keep chewing it. Koohii #2 To enjoy a food´s FLAVOR, it must be in one´s MOUTH but NOT YET swallowed. Primitives flavor, mouth, not yet, one, tree, wood 味わい(あじわい): flavour, meaning, significance 加味(かみ): seasoning, flavoring 吟味(ぎんみ): testing, scrutiny, careful investigation 三味線(さみせん): three-stringed Japanese guitar, shamisen 中味(なかみ): contents, interior, substance, filling, (sword) blade 不味い(まずい): unappetising, unpleasant (taste appearance situation), ugly, unskilful, awkward, bungling, unwise, untimely 味覚(みかく): taste, palate, sense of taste 無意味(むいみ): nonsense, no meaning 味わう(あじわう): to taste, savor, relish 気味(きみ): sensation, feeling 地味(じみ): plain, simple 正味(しょうみ): net (weight) 調味料(ちょうみりょう): condiment, seasoning 味方(みかた): friend, ally, supporter 味噌(みそ): miso (bean paste), key (main) point 味(あじ): taste 興味(きょうみ): interest 趣味(しゅみ): hobby 意味(いみ): meaning, significance Kunyomi: あじ、あじ.わう Onyomi: ミ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 味 (あじ), 味わう (あじ.わう)	flavor 味 画数8 233 Details Story Dictionary 味 flavor Heisig's When a tree has not yet finished growing, it produces fruit with a full flavor. When the official taster (the professional mouth to the left) determines that full flavor has been reached, the tree is pruned back so that it remains permanently not yet grown. A neat little agricultural trick and an easy to way see the sense of flavor hidden in this character. Koohii #1 My mouth has not yet swallowed the food because the flavor is so delicious that I keep chewing it. Koohii #2 To enjoy a food´s FLAVOR, it must be in one´s MOUTH but NOT YET swallowed. Primitives flavor, mouth, not yet, one, tree, wood 味わい(あじわい): flavour, meaning, significance 加味(かみ): seasoning, flavoring 吟味(ぎんみ): testing, scrutiny, careful investigation 三味線(さみせん): three-stringed Japanese guitar, shamisen 中味(なかみ): contents, interior, substance, filling, (sword) blade 不味い(まずい): unappetising, unpleasant (taste appearance situation), ugly, unskilful, awkward, bungling, unwise, untimely 味覚(みかく): taste, palate, sense of taste 無意味(むいみ): nonsense, no meaning 味わう(あじわう): to taste, savor, relish 気味(きみ): sensation, feeling 地味(じみ): plain, simple 正味(しょうみ): net (weight) 調味料(ちょうみりょう): condiment, seasoning 味方(みかた): friend, ally, supporter 味噌(みそ): miso (bean paste), key (main) point 味(あじ): taste 興味(きょうみ): interest 趣味(しゅみ): hobby 意味(いみ): meaning, significance Kunyomi: あじ、あじ.わう Onyomi: ミ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 味 (あじ), 味わう (あじ.わう)
younger sister Details Story Dictionary 妹 younger sister Heisig's The younger sister in the family is the woman in the family who, like the newest branch in a tree, is not yet old enough or mature enough to do everything the elder sister can do (See frame 442). Koohii #1 My younger sister is NOT YET a fully grown WOMAN. Koohii #2 Is your younger sister a woman? Not yet! Damn! Primitives younger sister, woman, not yet, one, tree, wood 姉妹(きょうだい): sisters 従姉妹(いとこ): female cousin 姉妹(しまい): sisters 妹(いもうと): younger sister Kunyomi: いもうと Onyomi: マイ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 妹 (いもうと)	younger sister 妹 画数8 234 Details Story Dictionary 妹 younger sister Heisig's The younger sister in the family is the woman in the family who, like the newest branch in a tree, is not yet old enough or mature enough to do everything the elder sister can do (See frame 442). Koohii #1 My younger sister is NOT YET a fully grown WOMAN. Koohii #2 Is your younger sister a woman? Not yet! Damn! Primitives younger sister, woman, not yet, one, tree, wood 姉妹(きょうだい): sisters 従姉妹(いとこ): female cousin 姉妹(しまい): sisters 妹(いもうと): younger sister Kunyomi: いもうと Onyomi: マイ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 妹 (いもうと)
vermilion Details Story Dictionary 朱 vermilion Heisig's That red-orange color we call vermilion is found in nature during the fall when the leaves lose their sugar and begin to change color. This kanji depicts the very last leaf on a tree in the fall (the drop hung in the first stroke), the leaf that has not yet fallen as it one day must. Look at its color - vermilion. (Well, not really. The truth is, vermilion is made from a mercuric sulfide, but I'm sure you will agree that autumn leaves area lot easier to work with.) Koohii #1 It´s autumn: only one vermilion leaf on the tree has not yet fallen. Koohii #2 [Cheat] Remember these as a set: The tree (木) is not yet (未)[correction wrong character before] vermilion (朱). Primitives vermillion, drop, not yet, one, tree, wood Kunyomi: あけ Onyomi: シュ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	vermilion 朱 画数6 235 Details Story Dictionary 朱 vermilion Heisig's That red-orange color we call vermilion is found in nature during the fall when the leaves lose their sugar and begin to change color. This kanji depicts the very last leaf on a tree in the fall (the drop hung in the first stroke), the leaf that has not yet fallen as it one day must. Look at its color - vermilion. (Well, not really. The truth is, vermilion is made from a mercuric sulfide, but I'm sure you will agree that autumn leaves area lot easier to work with.) Koohii #1 It´s autumn: only one vermilion leaf on the tree has not yet fallen. Koohii #2 [Cheat] Remember these as a set: The tree (木) is not yet (未)[correction wrong character before] vermilion (朱). Primitives vermillion, drop, not yet, one, tree, wood Kunyomi: あけ Onyomi: シュ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"stocks Details Story Dictionary 株 stocks Heisig's The stocks bought and sold on the market by the tens of millions each day get their name from a comparison to a healthy tree, in which one takes ""stock"" in the hopes that it will grow and produce more and more trees like itself. Usually good stocks are referred to as ""blue chip,"" but here we are asked to associate the key word with the color vermilion, perhaps because one can assess the value of a tree from the color of its autumn leaves. Koohii #1 Which tree would you buy stocks in - the healthy one on the left, or the one with only one vermilion leaf left on the right? Koohii #2 Ideally, one buys stocks when a company is young, ""green,"" and rapidly growing -- then sells them just before the last vermillion leaf falls off, and a period of dormancy or limited growth begins. Primitives stocks, tree, wood, vermillion, drop, not yet, one, tree, wood 株式(かぶしき): stock (company) 株(かぶ): share, stock, stump (of tree) Kunyomi: かぶ Onyomi: シュ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 株 (かぶ)"	"stocks 株 画数10 236 Details Story Dictionary 株 stocks Heisig's The stocks bought and sold on the market by the tens of millions each day get their name from a comparison to a healthy tree, in which one takes ""stock"" in the hopes that it will grow and produce more and more trees like itself. Usually good stocks are referred to as ""blue chip,"" but here we are asked to associate the key word with the color vermilion, perhaps because one can assess the value of a tree from the color of its autumn leaves. Koohii #1 Which tree would you buy stocks in - the healthy one on the left, or the one with only one vermilion leaf left on the right? Koohii #2 Ideally, one buys stocks when a company is young, ""green,"" and rapidly growing -- then sells them just before the last vermillion leaf falls off, and a period of dormancy or limited growth begins. Primitives stocks, tree, wood, vermillion, drop, not yet, one, tree, wood 株式(かぶしき): stock (company) 株(かぶ): share, stock, stump (of tree) Kunyomi: かぶ Onyomi: シュ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 株 (かぶ)"
young Details Story Dictionary 若 young Heisig's Here we see a flower held in the right hand. You can imagine yourself in a magic garden where flowers picked with the right hand grant eternal youth; and those picked with the left, premature senility. Go ahead, pick one with each hand and watch what happens. Koohii #1 The young little girl held a cute flower in her right hand. Koohii #2 In Hawaii, if you wear a flower over your left ear, it means you are taken. A flower over the right means you are not. The younger you are, the more likely you are to have a flower over your right ear…　　　　　　RTK2: 　ニャク　老若　ろうにゃく (young and old)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　 ジャク　若干　じゃっかん(few). Primitives young, flowers, right, by one’s side, mouth 若干(じゃっかん): some, few, number of 若し(もし): if, in case, supposing 若しかして(もしかして): perhaps, possibly 若しくは(もしくは): or, otherwise 若しも(もしも): if 若々しい(わかわかしい): youthful, young 若い(わかい): young Kunyomi: わか.い、わか-、も.しくわ、も.し、も.しくは Onyomi: ジャク、ニャク、ニャ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 若年 (じゃくねん), 若干 (じゃっかん), 自若 (じじゃく), 若しくは (も.しくは), 若い (わか.い)	young 若 画数8 237 Details Story Dictionary 若 young Heisig's Here we see a flower held in the right hand. You can imagine yourself in a magic garden where flowers picked with the right hand grant eternal youth; and those picked with the left, premature senility. Go ahead, pick one with each hand and watch what happens. Koohii #1 The young little girl held a cute flower in her right hand. Koohii #2 In Hawaii, if you wear a flower over your left ear, it means you are taken. A flower over the right means you are not. The younger you are, the more likely you are to have a flower over your right ear…　　　　　　RTK2: 　ニャク　老若　ろうにゃく (young and old)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　 ジャク　若干　じゃっかん(few). Primitives young, flowers, right, by one’s side, mouth 若干(じゃっかん): some, few, number of 若し(もし): if, in case, supposing 若しかして(もしかして): perhaps, possibly 若しくは(もしくは): or, otherwise 若しも(もしも): if 若々しい(わかわかしい): youthful, young 若い(わかい): young Kunyomi: わか.い、わか-、も.しくわ、も.し、も.しくは Onyomi: ジャク、ニャク、ニャ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 若年 (じゃくねん), 若干 (じゃっかん), 自若 (じじゃく), 若しくは (も.しくは), 若い (わか.い)
grass Details Story Dictionary 草 grass Heisig's Perhaps you know the custom of seeding grass randomly or in some particular pattern with the flower called the crocus, which blooms for a few days each year in early spring. As the grass begins to turn green again after winter has passed, these tiny flowers dot up here and there. Now just look out your window at a patch of grass somewhere and think what a nice idea it would be to have your name spelled out in flowers once as a sort of early harbinger of spring. Koohii #1 Grass grows in earlier than flowers. Koohii #2 This grass is very long. The only flowers you can see are sunflowers – the rest are hidden by the grass. Primitives grass, flowers, sunflower, early, sun, day, ten, needle 草臥れる(くたびれる): to get tired, to wear out 煙草(たばこ): (pt:) (n) (uk) tobacco (pt: tabaco), cigarettes 草履(ぞうり): sandals 草(くさ): grass Kunyomi: くさ、くさ-、-ぐさ Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 草 (くさ)	grass 草 画数9 238 Details Story Dictionary 草 grass Heisig's Perhaps you know the custom of seeding grass randomly or in some particular pattern with the flower called the crocus, which blooms for a few days each year in early spring. As the grass begins to turn green again after winter has passed, these tiny flowers dot up here and there. Now just look out your window at a patch of grass somewhere and think what a nice idea it would be to have your name spelled out in flowers once as a sort of early harbinger of spring. Koohii #1 Grass grows in earlier than flowers. Koohii #2 This grass is very long. The only flowers you can see are sunflowers – the rest are hidden by the grass. Primitives grass, flowers, sunflower, early, sun, day, ten, needle 草臥れる(くたびれる): to get tired, to wear out 煙草(たばこ): (pt:) (n) (uk) tobacco (pt: tabaco), cigarettes 草履(ぞうり): sandals 草(くさ): grass Kunyomi: くさ、くさ-、-ぐさ Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 草 (くさ)
suffering Details Story Dictionary 苦 suffering My Story [Flower + Old] *Flowers* for the *old* & suffering. Koohii #1 Flowers for the old man suffering in the hospital. Koohii #2 The derivates from opium poppies such as morphine can be used to tame the suffering of the old. Primitives suffering, flowers, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 苦しめる(くるしめる): to torment, to harass, to inflict pain ご苦労様(ごくろうさま): Thank you very much for your.... 見苦しい(みぐるしい): unsightly, ugly 無茶苦茶(むちゃくちゃ): confused, jumbled, mixed up, unreasonable 滅茶苦茶(めちゃくちゃ): absurd, unreasonable, excessive, messed up, spoiled, wreaked 苦情(くじょう): complaint, troubles, objection 苦心(くしん): pain, trouble, anxiety, diligence, hard work 苦痛(くつう): pain, agony 苦しい(くるしい): painful, difficult 苦しむ(くるしむ): suffer, groan, be worried 苦労(くろう): troubles, hardships 苦手(にがて): poor (at), weak (in), dislike (of) 苦い(にがい): bitter Kunyomi: くる.しい、-ぐる.しい、くる.しむ、くる.しめる、にが.い、にが.る Onyomi: ク Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 苦しい (くる.しい), 苦しむ (くる.しむ), 苦しめる (くる.しめる), 苦い (にが.い), 苦る (にが.る)	suffering 苦 画数8 239 Details Story Dictionary 苦 suffering My Story [Flower + Old] *Flowers* for the *old* & suffering. Koohii #1 Flowers for the old man suffering in the hospital. Koohii #2 The derivates from opium poppies such as morphine can be used to tame the suffering of the old. Primitives suffering, flowers, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 苦しめる(くるしめる): to torment, to harass, to inflict pain ご苦労様(ごくろうさま): Thank you very much for your.... 見苦しい(みぐるしい): unsightly, ugly 無茶苦茶(むちゃくちゃ): confused, jumbled, mixed up, unreasonable 滅茶苦茶(めちゃくちゃ): absurd, unreasonable, excessive, messed up, spoiled, wreaked 苦情(くじょう): complaint, troubles, objection 苦心(くしん): pain, trouble, anxiety, diligence, hard work 苦痛(くつう): pain, agony 苦しい(くるしい): painful, difficult 苦しむ(くるしむ): suffer, groan, be worried 苦労(くろう): troubles, hardships 苦手(にがて): poor (at), weak (in), dislike (of) 苦い(にがい): bitter Kunyomi: くる.しい、-ぐる.しい、くる.しむ、くる.しめる、にが.い、にが.る Onyomi: ク Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 苦しい (くる.しい), 苦しむ (くる.しむ), 苦しめる (くる.しめる), 苦い (にが.い), 苦る (にが.る)
bullying Details Story Dictionary 苛 bullying Heisig's A nosegay of flowers make a nice gift, but if those flowers are poison oak, they can amount to bullying. Be sure to emphasize the word can when you repeat this little phrase to yourself. Koohii #1 How many flowers can I stuff in your nostrils? Well I´m just gonna have to go and see. Bullying at its worst! Koohii #2 Flowers, you ask if they can feel pain, do you? ^stomp^ ^stomp^ ^stomp^ They sure -can-!! ^stomp^ ^stomp^ ^stomp^ ^stomp^ ^stomp^ ^stomp^!! Primitives bullying, flowers, can, mouth, street, street, nail, spike 苛める(いじめる): to tease, to torment, to persecute, to chastise Kunyomi: いじ.める、さいな.む、いらだ.つ、からい、こまかい Onyomi: カ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	bullying 苛 画数8 240 Details Story Dictionary 苛 bullying Heisig's A nosegay of flowers make a nice gift, but if those flowers are poison oak, they can amount to bullying. Be sure to emphasize the word can when you repeat this little phrase to yourself. Koohii #1 How many flowers can I stuff in your nostrils? Well I´m just gonna have to go and see. Bullying at its worst! Koohii #2 Flowers, you ask if they can feel pain, do you? ^stomp^ ^stomp^ ^stomp^ They sure -can-!! ^stomp^ ^stomp^ ^stomp^ ^stomp^ ^stomp^ ^stomp^!! Primitives bullying, flowers, can, mouth, street, street, nail, spike 苛める(いじめる): to tease, to torment, to persecute, to chastise Kunyomi: いじ.める、さいな.む、いらだ.つ、からい、こまかい Onyomi: カ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
"tolerant Details Story Dictionary 寛 tolerant Heisig's The house of flowers or ""hothouse"" has become a metaphor for a narrow-minded, biased, and intolerant attitude distrustful of change. Tolerance, in contrast, is open-minded and welcomes novelty. The way to encourage tolerance in those who lack it is first to have them see through their own hothouse attitudes, which is the very counsel we are given in this kanji. Koohii #1 A tolerant person will ignore SEEing GRASS (marijuana) in the HOUSE of a friend. Koohii #2 To be tolerant is to see flowers (meaning ""beautiful things"") in every house, instead of looking for drawbacks. Primitives tolerant, house, flowers, look, see, telescope, eye, human legs 寛容(かんよう): forbearance, tolerance, generosity Kunyomi: くつろ.ぐ、ひろ.い、ゆる.やか Onyomi: カン Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"tolerant 寛 画数13 241 Details Story Dictionary 寛 tolerant Heisig's The house of flowers or ""hothouse"" has become a metaphor for a narrow-minded, biased, and intolerant attitude distrustful of change. Tolerance, in contrast, is open-minded and welcomes novelty. The way to encourage tolerance in those who lack it is first to have them see through their own hothouse attitudes, which is the very counsel we are given in this kanji. Koohii #1 A tolerant person will ignore SEEing GRASS (marijuana) in the HOUSE of a friend. Koohii #2 To be tolerant is to see flowers (meaning ""beautiful things"") in every house, instead of looking for drawbacks. Primitives tolerant, house, flowers, look, see, telescope, eye, human legs 寛容(かんよう): forbearance, tolerance, generosity Kunyomi: くつろ.ぐ、ひろ.い、ゆる.やか Onyomi: カン Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
dilute Details Story Dictionary 薄 dilute My Story Her *specialty* is submerging (diluting) fragrant *flowers* in a lot of *water*, to create a very WEAK perfume. Koohii #1 A Dr. missing his needle can only use dilute flower water for medicine. Koohii #2 Note This character belongs to a set of characters which share the flower/water primitive such as:: dilute (#227), fall (#299), clan (#1912), and seaweed (#2035).... (落 薄 藩 藻) It may be helpful to create a primitive keyword for this occurrence (like seaweed or watering can) which can save a lot of time distinguishing them from characters like Sino 満 and Full 満, where the water primitive is larger than the flower primitive. Primitives dilute, flowers, water, water droplets, water pistol, acupuncturist, specialty, drop, ten, needle, rice field, brains, glue 薄弱(はくじゃく): feebleness, weakness, weak 薄暗い(うすぐらい): dim, gloomy 薄める(うすめる): dilute 薄い(うすい): thin, weak, watery, diluted Kunyomi: うす.い、うす-、-うす、うす.める、うす.まる、うす.らぐ、うす.ら-、うす.れる、すすき Onyomi: ハク Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 薄い (うす.い), 薄まる (うす.まる), 薄める (うす.める), 薄らく (うす.らく), 薄れる (うす.れる)	dilute 薄 画数16 242 Details Story Dictionary 薄 dilute My Story Her *specialty* is submerging (diluting) fragrant *flowers* in a lot of *water*, to create a very WEAK perfume. Koohii #1 A Dr. missing his needle can only use dilute flower water for medicine. Koohii #2 Note This character belongs to a set of characters which share the flower/water primitive such as:: dilute (#227), fall (#299), clan (#1912), and seaweed (#2035).... (落 薄 藩 藻) It may be helpful to create a primitive keyword for this occurrence (like seaweed or watering can) which can save a lot of time distinguishing them from characters like Sino 満 and Full 満, where the water primitive is larger than the flower primitive. Primitives dilute, flowers, water, water droplets, water pistol, acupuncturist, specialty, drop, ten, needle, rice field, brains, glue 薄弱(はくじゃく): feebleness, weakness, weak 薄暗い(うすぐらい): dim, gloomy 薄める(うすめる): dilute 薄い(うすい): thin, weak, watery, diluted Kunyomi: うす.い、うす-、-うす、うす.める、うす.まる、うす.らぐ、うす.ら-、うす.れる、すすき Onyomi: ハク Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 薄い (うす.い), 薄まる (うす.まる), 薄める (うす.める), 薄らく (うす.らく), 薄れる (うす.れる)
"leaf Details Story Dictionary 葉 leaf Heisig's Three elements are given here: flower . . . generation . . . tree. The first and last seem logical enough, since it is the leaf that feeds the flowers on a tree. The element for generation interposed between the two suggests that the movement of a tree from one generation to the next is like its ""turning over a new leaf."" Koohii #1 On top of the leaves a flower appears, promising new generations for the old tree below. Koohii #2 The flower generation spent far too much time up trees trying to smoke leaves. Primitives leaf, flowers, Tarzan, generation, tree, wood 落ち葉(おちば): fallen leaves, leaf litter, defoliation, shedding leaves 紅葉(こうよう): autumn colours 言葉遣い(ことばづかい): speech, expression, wording 紅葉(もみじ): autumn colours, (Japanese) maple 葉(は): leaf 言葉(ことば): word(s), phrase, language, speech 葉書(はがき): postcard Kunyomi: は Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 葉 (は)"	"leaf 葉 画数12 243 Details Story Dictionary 葉 leaf Heisig's Three elements are given here: flower . . . generation . . . tree. The first and last seem logical enough, since it is the leaf that feeds the flowers on a tree. The element for generation interposed between the two suggests that the movement of a tree from one generation to the next is like its ""turning over a new leaf."" Koohii #1 On top of the leaves a flower appears, promising new generations for the old tree below. Koohii #2 The flower generation spent far too much time up trees trying to smoke leaves. Primitives leaf, flowers, Tarzan, generation, tree, wood 落ち葉(おちば): fallen leaves, leaf litter, defoliation, shedding leaves 紅葉(こうよう): autumn colours 言葉遣い(ことばづかい): speech, expression, wording 紅葉(もみじ): autumn colours, (Japanese) maple 葉(は): leaf 言葉(ことば): word(s), phrase, language, speech 葉書(はがき): postcard Kunyomi: は Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 葉 (は)"
imitation Details Story Dictionary 模 imitation Heisig's Ah, but haven't modern graveyards become a parody of their ancestors! The flowers are plastic, the writing on the stones is unimaginative and cold, and the whole thing looks more like a marble orchard than a right and proper graveyard. This kanji continues with the modernization trend by picturing imitation trees in the graveyard. But of course, how convenient! They don't need pruning or fertilizing, their leaves don't fall, and they remain the same color all year long. Koohii #1 If I find out this furniture you´re selling me is made of imitation wood, I´ll put you in the graveyard. Koohii #2 The Japanese are so enamored of everything plastic, they even put IMITATION plastic trees in their graveyards! (No, not really, but I wouldn´t be surprised). Primitives imitation, tree, wood, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard 規模(きぼ): scale, scope, plan, structure 模型(もけい): model, dummy, maquette 模索(もさく): groping (for) 模範(もはん): exemplar, exemplification, exemplum, model, example 模倣(もほう): imitation, copying 模様(もよう): pattern, figure, design Kunyomi: Onyomi: モ、ボ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 模範 (もはん), 模型 (もけい), 模倣 (もほう)	imitation 模 画数14 244 Details Story Dictionary 模 imitation Heisig's Ah, but haven't modern graveyards become a parody of their ancestors! The flowers are plastic, the writing on the stones is unimaginative and cold, and the whole thing looks more like a marble orchard than a right and proper graveyard. This kanji continues with the modernization trend by picturing imitation trees in the graveyard. But of course, how convenient! They don't need pruning or fertilizing, their leaves don't fall, and they remain the same color all year long. Koohii #1 If I find out this furniture you´re selling me is made of imitation wood, I´ll put you in the graveyard. Koohii #2 The Japanese are so enamored of everything plastic, they even put IMITATION plastic trees in their graveyards! (No, not really, but I wouldn´t be surprised). Primitives imitation, tree, wood, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard 規模(きぼ): scale, scope, plan, structure 模型(もけい): model, dummy, maquette 模索(もさく): groping (for) 模範(もはん): exemplar, exemplification, exemplum, model, example 模倣(もほう): imitation, copying 模様(もよう): pattern, figure, design Kunyomi: Onyomi: モ、ボ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 模範 (もはん), 模型 (もけい), 模倣 (もほう)
vague Details Story Dictionary 漠 vague Heisig's Think of the key word as having to do with something viewed through a haze, or in the twilight and from a distance, so that only its outlines are vaguely discernible. Now we are back again to the essence of the true graveyard. The water may be taken as the sound of waves dashing up against the rocks or the dripping of moisture on cold rock - anything that helps you associate vagueness with the graveyard and keep it distinct from the imitation we met in the last frame. Koohii #1 The precise locations of sailors who meet a WATERY GRAVE are vague. Koohii #2 The water in the graveyard has worn away the headstones, so the writing is vague. Primitives vague, water, water droplets, water pistol, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard 漠然(ばくぜん): obscure, vague, equivocal 砂漠(さばく): desert Kunyomi: Onyomi: バク Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	vague 漠 画数13 245 Details Story Dictionary 漠 vague Heisig's Think of the key word as having to do with something viewed through a haze, or in the twilight and from a distance, so that only its outlines are vaguely discernible. Now we are back again to the essence of the true graveyard. The water may be taken as the sound of waves dashing up against the rocks or the dripping of moisture on cold rock - anything that helps you associate vagueness with the graveyard and keep it distinct from the imitation we met in the last frame. Koohii #1 The precise locations of sailors who meet a WATERY GRAVE are vague. Koohii #2 The water in the graveyard has worn away the headstones, so the writing is vague. Primitives vague, water, water droplets, water pistol, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard 漠然(ばくぜん): obscure, vague, equivocal 砂漠(さばく): desert Kunyomi: Onyomi: バク Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"grave Details Story Dictionary 墓 grave Heisig's The mounds of soil with crude wooden crosses set at their head suggests those boot-hill graves we all know from cowboy lore. The only odd thing about this kanji is that the soil comes UNDER the graveyard, rather than to its left, where we might expect. Just think of the bodies as ""lying under boot-hill"" if you have any trouble. By the way, this is not the first time, nor will it be the last, that we learn a kanji whose key word is the same, or almost the same, as a primitive element based on it, but whose shape differs somewhat. There is no cause to worry. By using the primitive in a variety of other characters, as we have done here, the confusion will be averted as a matter of course. In most cases, as here, the primitive element is taken from a part of the fuller kanji. Koohii #1 The soil under a graveyard is full of graves. Koohii #2 A grave is a patch of soil in a graveyard. Primitives grave, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard, soil, dirt, ground 墓地(はかち): cemetery, graveyard 墓(はか): gravesite, tomb Kunyomi: はか Onyomi: ボ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 墓 (はか)"	"grave 墓 画数13 246 Details Story Dictionary 墓 grave Heisig's The mounds of soil with crude wooden crosses set at their head suggests those boot-hill graves we all know from cowboy lore. The only odd thing about this kanji is that the soil comes UNDER the graveyard, rather than to its left, where we might expect. Just think of the bodies as ""lying under boot-hill"" if you have any trouble. By the way, this is not the first time, nor will it be the last, that we learn a kanji whose key word is the same, or almost the same, as a primitive element based on it, but whose shape differs somewhat. There is no cause to worry. By using the primitive in a variety of other characters, as we have done here, the confusion will be averted as a matter of course. In most cases, as here, the primitive element is taken from a part of the fuller kanji. Koohii #1 The soil under a graveyard is full of graves. Koohii #2 A grave is a patch of soil in a graveyard. Primitives grave, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard, soil, dirt, ground 墓地(はかち): cemetery, graveyard 墓(はか): gravesite, tomb Kunyomi: はか Onyomi: ボ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 墓 (はか)"
livelihood Details Story Dictionary 暮 livelihood Heisig's Imagine that you have chosen the occupation of the keeper of a graveyard and spend your days tending to other's dead hood in order to make your means of livelihood. Koohii #1 He made a livelihood out of robbing GRAVEYARDS in broad DAYlight. Koohii #2 The gravedigger makes his LIVELIHOOD digging in the graveyard all day For graveyard, imagine an idyllic picture: beautiful grass with the sun shining down...and a dog peeing on one of the graves. Don´t confuse with occupation (#1034). Hold onto the irony of making your LIVElyhood from tending dead people. Primitives livelihood, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard, sun2, day2 夕暮れ(ゆうぐれ): evening, (evening) twilight 暮らし(くらし): living, livelihood, subsistence, circumstances 暮らす(くらす): live, get along 暮れ(くれ): year end, sunset, nightfall, end 暮れる(くれる): get dark Kunyomi: く.れる、く.らす Onyomi: ボ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 暮らす (く.らす), 暮れる (く.れる)	livelihood 暮 画数14 247 Details Story Dictionary 暮 livelihood Heisig's Imagine that you have chosen the occupation of the keeper of a graveyard and spend your days tending to other's dead hood in order to make your means of livelihood. Koohii #1 He made a livelihood out of robbing GRAVEYARDS in broad DAYlight. Koohii #2 The gravedigger makes his LIVELIHOOD digging in the graveyard all day For graveyard, imagine an idyllic picture: beautiful grass with the sun shining down...and a dog peeing on one of the graves. Don´t confuse with occupation (#1034). Hold onto the irony of making your LIVElyhood from tending dead people. Primitives livelihood, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard, sun2, day2 夕暮れ(ゆうぐれ): evening, (evening) twilight 暮らし(くらし): living, livelihood, subsistence, circumstances 暮らす(くらす): live, get along 暮れ(くれ): year end, sunset, nightfall, end 暮れる(くれる): get dark Kunyomi: く.れる、く.らす Onyomi: ボ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 暮らす (く.らす), 暮れる (く.れる)
"membrane Details Story Dictionary 膜 membrane Heisig's The part of the body first affected by a stroll through a haunted graveyard is the skin, which gets goose bumps. But we save the word ""skin"" for another kanji, and use the odd word ""membrane"" here. Think of being so scared through and through that the goose flesh moves from the outside in, giving you goose membranes. Koohii #1 In the moonlight of the graveyard I hear a zombie say, MMMMM..EMM...BRANEsssss. Koohii #2 The membranes in your flesh rot when placed in the graveyard. Primitives membrane, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard 膜(まく): membrane, film Kunyomi: Onyomi: マク Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"membrane 膜 画数14 248 Details Story Dictionary 膜 membrane Heisig's The part of the body first affected by a stroll through a haunted graveyard is the skin, which gets goose bumps. But we save the word ""skin"" for another kanji, and use the odd word ""membrane"" here. Think of being so scared through and through that the goose flesh moves from the outside in, giving you goose membranes. Koohii #1 In the moonlight of the graveyard I hear a zombie say, MMMMM..EMM...BRANEsssss. Koohii #2 The membranes in your flesh rot when placed in the graveyard. Primitives membrane, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard 膜(まく): membrane, film Kunyomi: Onyomi: マク Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"seedling Details Story Dictionary 苗 seedling Heisig's To avoid confusion with the image of rice seedlings to appear later, we shall take these seedlings out of their agricultural setting in the rice fields and into the frame of Brave New World surgery, where ""ideas"" or ""values"" are being implanted into brains like seedlings to insure a harmonious society. Then you need only imagine them taking root and breaking out into flower right through the tops of the skulls of people walking around on the streets. Koohii #1 If you plant seedlings in a FIELD eventually they will FLOWER. Koohii #2 Crap! There are flowers in the rice field... Who let those seedlings get in there?! Primitives seedling, flowers, rice field, brains 苗(なえ): rice seedling Kunyomi: なえ、なわ- Onyomi: ビョウ、ミョウ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 苗 (なえ)"	"seedling 苗 画数8 249 Details Story Dictionary 苗 seedling Heisig's To avoid confusion with the image of rice seedlings to appear later, we shall take these seedlings out of their agricultural setting in the rice fields and into the frame of Brave New World surgery, where ""ideas"" or ""values"" are being implanted into brains like seedlings to insure a harmonious society. Then you need only imagine them taking root and breaking out into flower right through the tops of the skulls of people walking around on the streets. Koohii #1 If you plant seedlings in a FIELD eventually they will FLOWER. Koohii #2 Crap! There are flowers in the rice field... Who let those seedlings get in there?! Primitives seedling, flowers, rice field, brains 苗(なえ): rice seedling Kunyomi: なえ、なわ- Onyomi: ビョウ、ミョウ Lesson: 10 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 苗 (なえ)"
portent Details Story Dictionary 兆 portent Heisig's Here we have a pictograph of the back of a turtle, the two sloping vertical strokes representing the central ridge and the four short strokes the pattern. Think of reading turtle shells as a way to foretell the future, and in particular things that portend coming evils. * When this character is used as a primitive in its full form, we keep the key-word sense of a portent. When it appears to the left in its abbreviated form (namely, the left half only), we shall give it the pictographic sense of a turtle. Koohii #1 When your wife´s LEGs get huge hairs on them it is surely a bad portent for things to come. Koohii #2 A bad portent makes the hairs on your legs stand. Primitives portent, turtle, portent 兆し(きざし): signs, omen, symptoms Kunyomi: きざ.す、きざ.し Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 11 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 兆し (きざ.し), 兆す (きざ.す)	portent 兆 画数6 250 Details Story Dictionary 兆 portent Heisig's Here we have a pictograph of the back of a turtle, the two sloping vertical strokes representing the central ridge and the four short strokes the pattern. Think of reading turtle shells as a way to foretell the future, and in particular things that portend coming evils. * When this character is used as a primitive in its full form, we keep the key-word sense of a portent. When it appears to the left in its abbreviated form (namely, the left half only), we shall give it the pictographic sense of a turtle. Koohii #1 When your wife´s LEGs get huge hairs on them it is surely a bad portent for things to come. Koohii #2 A bad portent makes the hairs on your legs stand. Primitives portent, turtle, portent 兆し(きざし): signs, omen, symptoms Kunyomi: きざ.す、きざ.し Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 11 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 兆し (きざ.し), 兆す (きざ.す)
peach tree Details Story Dictionary 桃 peach tree My Story A *tree* with only peaches is a very bad *omen* - Beware! Koohii #1 The pits of a peach tree look like turtles. Koohii #2 King Koopa consistently captures Princess Peach. Eventually he´s going to run out of castles and just set her in a tree. Primitives peach tree, tree, wood, portent, turtle Kunyomi: もも Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 11 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 桃 (もも)	peach tree 桃 画数10 251 Details Story Dictionary 桃 peach tree My Story A *tree* with only peaches is a very bad *omen* - Beware! Koohii #1 The pits of a peach tree look like turtles. Koohii #2 King Koopa consistently captures Princess Peach. Eventually he´s going to run out of castles and just set her in a tree. Primitives peach tree, tree, wood, portent, turtle Kunyomi: もも Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 11 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 桃 (もも)
"stare Details Story Dictionary 眺 stare Heisig's To give someone the ""evil eye"" is to stare at them, wishing them evil. The roots of the superstition are old and almost universal throughout the cultures of the world. In this kanji, too, being stared at is depicted as an eye that portends evil. Koohii #1 Sauron´s One fiery eye stare at Frodo and it is a sign of portent. Evil will become whomever the eye is staring upon. Koohii #2 You lost a staring contest with a turtle because you blinked your eye before he did. (The contest wasn´t fair, because turtles have nictitating membranes, and don´t need to blink so often.) Eye comes first, because stare is most associated with eyes. And compare with challenge (#658) where this same obstreperous turtle challenges you to a finger wrestling contest. (Sibyl´s story with some notes that helped me). Primitives stare, eye, portent, turtle 眺め(ながめ): scene, view, prospect, outlook 眺める(ながめる): view, gaze at Kunyomi: なが.める Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 11 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 眺める (なが.める)"	"stare 眺 画数11 252 Details Story Dictionary 眺 stare Heisig's To give someone the ""evil eye"" is to stare at them, wishing them evil. The roots of the superstition are old and almost universal throughout the cultures of the world. In this kanji, too, being stared at is depicted as an eye that portends evil. Koohii #1 Sauron´s One fiery eye stare at Frodo and it is a sign of portent. Evil will become whomever the eye is staring upon. Koohii #2 You lost a staring contest with a turtle because you blinked your eye before he did. (The contest wasn´t fair, because turtles have nictitating membranes, and don´t need to blink so often.) Eye comes first, because stare is most associated with eyes. And compare with challenge (#658) where this same obstreperous turtle challenges you to a finger wrestling contest. (Sibyl´s story with some notes that helped me). Primitives stare, eye, portent, turtle 眺め(ながめ): scene, view, prospect, outlook 眺める(ながめる): view, gaze at Kunyomi: なが.める Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 11 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 眺める (なが.める)"
dog Details Story Dictionary 犬 dog Heisig's We know that the character for large takes on the meaning of the St. Bernard dog when used as a primitive. In this frame we finally see why. The drop added as a fourth and final stroke means that we have to do with a normal-sized dog, which compared to the St. Bernard is no more than a drop in the kennel. * As a primitive this character can take two meanings. In the form given here it will mean a very small dog (which we shall refer to as a chihuahua for convenience sake). When it takes the form 犭 to the left of a character, we shall give it the meaning of a pack of wild dogs. Koohii #1 A large dog, dripping drool. Koohii #2 If we remember large (#107) as a man with his arms outstretched, the drop represents man´s best friend - a dog. Primitives dog, large, St. Bernard, drop 犬(いぬ): dog Kunyomi: いぬ、いぬ- Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 11 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 犬 (いぬ)	dog 犬 画数4 253 Details Story Dictionary 犬 dog Heisig's We know that the character for large takes on the meaning of the St. Bernard dog when used as a primitive. In this frame we finally see why. The drop added as a fourth and final stroke means that we have to do with a normal-sized dog, which compared to the St. Bernard is no more than a drop in the kennel. * As a primitive this character can take two meanings. In the form given here it will mean a very small dog (which we shall refer to as a chihuahua for convenience sake). When it takes the form 犭 to the left of a character, we shall give it the meaning of a pack of wild dogs. Koohii #1 A large dog, dripping drool. Koohii #2 If we remember large (#107) as a man with his arms outstretched, the drop represents man´s best friend - a dog. Primitives dog, large, St. Bernard, drop 犬(いぬ): dog Kunyomi: いぬ、いぬ- Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 11 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 犬 (いぬ)
status quo Details Story Dictionary 状 status quo Heisig's Did you ever hear of the turtle who fell madly in love with a chihuahua but could not have her because their two families did not like the idea of their children intermarrying? Like all classic stories of ill-fated love, this one shows how the young upset the status quo with an emotion older and more powerful than anything their elders have devised to counter it: blind love. Koohii #1 It was left to the turtle to make right with the dog and thus maintain the status quo.. Koohii #2 A turtle mounting a chihuahua clearly disrupts the status quo. Primitives status quo, turtle, chihuahua, dog, large, drop 状(じょう): shape 白状(はくじょう): confession 現状(げんじょう): present condition, existing state, status quo 状況(じょうきょう): state of affairs (around you), situation, circumstances 症状(しょうじょう): symptoms, condition 状態(じょうたい): current status, condition, situation, circumstances, state Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 11 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	status quo 状 画数7 254 Details Story Dictionary 状 status quo Heisig's Did you ever hear of the turtle who fell madly in love with a chihuahua but could not have her because their two families did not like the idea of their children intermarrying? Like all classic stories of ill-fated love, this one shows how the young upset the status quo with an emotion older and more powerful than anything their elders have devised to counter it: blind love. Koohii #1 It was left to the turtle to make right with the dog and thus maintain the status quo.. Koohii #2 A turtle mounting a chihuahua clearly disrupts the status quo. Primitives status quo, turtle, chihuahua, dog, large, drop 状(じょう): shape 白状(はくじょう): confession 現状(げんじょう): present condition, existing state, status quo 状況(じょうきょう): state of affairs (around you), situation, circumstances 症状(しょうじょう): symptoms, condition 状態(じょうたい): current status, condition, situation, circumstances, state Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 11 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
"silence Details Story Dictionary 黙 silence Heisig's Oddly enough, the character for silence shows us a black chihuahua. Actually, the cute little critter's name is Darkness, as I am sure you remember from the famous song about silence that begins, ""Hello, Darkness, my old friend...."" Note how the four dots reach all the way across the bottom of the character. Koohii #1 The computer won´t stop beeping, which is making the chihauhua bark, and it´s driving this guy insane. The only solution he can come up with is to throw them both on the fire and finally enjoy the silence. Koohii #2 Your neighbor is so sick of you playing Led Zeppelin that he takes your copy of the song Black Dog and burns it. Finally, silence in the neighborhood. Primitives silence, black, computer, chihuahua, dog, large, drop, oven-fire, barbecue 沈黙(ちんもく): silence, reticence 黙る(だまる): be silent Kunyomi: だま.る、もだ.す Onyomi: モク、ボク Lesson: 11 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 黙る (だま.る)"	"silence 黙 画数15 255 Details Story Dictionary 黙 silence Heisig's Oddly enough, the character for silence shows us a black chihuahua. Actually, the cute little critter's name is Darkness, as I am sure you remember from the famous song about silence that begins, ""Hello, Darkness, my old friend...."" Note how the four dots reach all the way across the bottom of the character. Koohii #1 The computer won´t stop beeping, which is making the chihauhua bark, and it´s driving this guy insane. The only solution he can come up with is to throw them both on the fire and finally enjoy the silence. Koohii #2 Your neighbor is so sick of you playing Led Zeppelin that he takes your copy of the song Black Dog and burns it. Finally, silence in the neighborhood. Primitives silence, black, computer, chihuahua, dog, large, drop, oven-fire, barbecue 沈黙(ちんもく): silence, reticence 黙る(だまる): be silent Kunyomi: だま.る、もだ.す Onyomi: モク、ボク Lesson: 11 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 黙る (だま.る)"
"sort of thing Details Story Dictionary 然 sort of thing Heisig's The key word in this frame refers to a suffix that gives the word before it an adjectival quality; hence we refer to it as ""sort of thing."" Reverting to the time when dog was more widely eaten than it is today (See frame 127), we see here a large cauldron boiling over an oven flame with the flesh of a chihuahua being thrown into the whole concoction to make it into a ""hot-diggity, dog-diggity"" sort of thing. Koohii #1 Flesh of a dog over a cooking fire = ""hotdog"". There are all sorts of things in hot dogs. Believe me, you don´t want to know what sort of things . Visualize the hotdog curling as it cooks, to remember the unusual way the flesh primitive curves in this kanji. (tweaked version of ziggr´s. Thanks!). Koohii #2 There are all sorts of things in hot dogs. (I use hot dog for this primitive (meat of a dog over a cooking fire). I swear I can actually see the 月 here as a hot dog, with its slight curve and grill marks.). Primitives sort of thing, moon, crescent moon, month, flesh, part of the body, chihuahua, dog, large, drop, oven-fire, barbecue 依然(いぜん): still, as yet 公然(こうぜん): open (e.g. secret), public, official 然も(さも): with gusto, with satisfaction 然しながら(しかしながら): nevertheless, however 整然(せいぜん): orderly, regular, well-organized, trim, accurate 全然(ぜんぜん): wholly, entirely, completely, not at all (with neg. verb) 然して(そして): and 断然(だんぜん): firmly, absolutely, definitely 漠然(ばくぜん): obscure, vague, equivocal 必然(ひつぜん): inevitable, necessary 呆然(ぼうぜん): dumbfounded, overcome with surprise, in blank amazement 偶然(ぐうぜん): chance, accident, fortuity, unexpectedly, suddenly 自然(しぜん): nature, spontaneous 自然科学(しぜんかがく): natural science 天然(てんねん): nature, spontaneity 突然(とつぜん): abruptly, suddenly, unexpectedly, all at once Kunyomi: しか、しか.り、しか.し、さ Onyomi: ゼン、ネン Lesson: 11 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 当然 (とうぜん), 自然 (しぜん), 必然 (ひつぜん)"	"sort of thing 然 画数12 256 Details Story Dictionary 然 sort of thing Heisig's The key word in this frame refers to a suffix that gives the word before it an adjectival quality; hence we refer to it as ""sort of thing."" Reverting to the time when dog was more widely eaten than it is today (See frame 127), we see here a large cauldron boiling over an oven flame with the flesh of a chihuahua being thrown into the whole concoction to make it into a ""hot-diggity, dog-diggity"" sort of thing. Koohii #1 Flesh of a dog over a cooking fire = ""hotdog"". There are all sorts of things in hot dogs. Believe me, you don´t want to know what sort of things . Visualize the hotdog curling as it cooks, to remember the unusual way the flesh primitive curves in this kanji. (tweaked version of ziggr´s. Thanks!). Koohii #2 There are all sorts of things in hot dogs. (I use hot dog for this primitive (meat of a dog over a cooking fire). I swear I can actually see the 月 here as a hot dog, with its slight curve and grill marks.). Primitives sort of thing, moon, crescent moon, month, flesh, part of the body, chihuahua, dog, large, drop, oven-fire, barbecue 依然(いぜん): still, as yet 公然(こうぜん): open (e.g. secret), public, official 然も(さも): with gusto, with satisfaction 然しながら(しかしながら): nevertheless, however 整然(せいぜん): orderly, regular, well-organized, trim, accurate 全然(ぜんぜん): wholly, entirely, completely, not at all (with neg. verb) 然して(そして): and 断然(だんぜん): firmly, absolutely, definitely 漠然(ばくぜん): obscure, vague, equivocal 必然(ひつぜん): inevitable, necessary 呆然(ぼうぜん): dumbfounded, overcome with surprise, in blank amazement 偶然(ぐうぜん): chance, accident, fortuity, unexpectedly, suddenly 自然(しぜん): nature, spontaneous 自然科学(しぜんかがく): natural science 天然(てんねん): nature, spontaneity 突然(とつぜん): abruptly, suddenly, unexpectedly, all at once Kunyomi: しか、しか.り、しか.し、さ Onyomi: ゼン、ネン Lesson: 11 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 当然 (とうぜん), 自然 (しぜん), 必然 (ひつぜん)"
"reed Details Story Dictionary 荻 reed Heisig's You've no doubt seen cattails, those swamp reeds with a furry flower to them like the tail of a cat. This might just turn out to be a good way to get rid of a troublesome pack of wild dogs: lure them into a swamp of these reeds with the cattail flowers and then set fire to the swamp. Take care to focus on the flower rather than the ""cattail"" to avoid confusion with frame 259 below. Koohii #1 REEDS are the only FLOWERS that WILD DOGS like to FIRE up and smoke while they are playing poker. Koohii #2 A reed is a flower that looks like a hot dog. Primitives reed, flowers, pack of wild dogs, fire Kunyomi: おぎ Onyomi: テキ Lesson: 11 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"reed 荻 画数10 257 Details Story Dictionary 荻 reed Heisig's You've no doubt seen cattails, those swamp reeds with a furry flower to them like the tail of a cat. This might just turn out to be a good way to get rid of a troublesome pack of wild dogs: lure them into a swamp of these reeds with the cattail flowers and then set fire to the swamp. Take care to focus on the flower rather than the ""cattail"" to avoid confusion with frame 259 below. Koohii #1 REEDS are the only FLOWERS that WILD DOGS like to FIRE up and smoke while they are playing poker. Koohii #2 A reed is a flower that looks like a hot dog. Primitives reed, flowers, pack of wild dogs, fire Kunyomi: おぎ Onyomi: テキ Lesson: 11 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:"
hunt Details Story Dictionary 狩 hunt Heisig's One of the worst problems you have to face when you go hunting is to guard your take from the wild dogs. If you imagine yourself failing at the task, you will probably have a stronger image than if you try to picture yourself succeeding. Koohii #1 Actually when hunting it may be a good idea to use a pack of dogs as your personal guard. Koohii #2 After a pack of wild dogs hunt some food, they will guard it fiercely. Primitives hunt, pack of wild dogs, guard, house, glue Kunyomi: か.る、か.り、-が.り Onyomi: シュ Lesson: 11 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 狩り (か.り), 狩る (か.る)	hunt 狩 画数9 258 Details Story Dictionary 狩 hunt Heisig's One of the worst problems you have to face when you go hunting is to guard your take from the wild dogs. If you imagine yourself failing at the task, you will probably have a stronger image than if you try to picture yourself succeeding. Koohii #1 Actually when hunting it may be a good idea to use a pack of dogs as your personal guard. Koohii #2 After a pack of wild dogs hunt some food, they will guard it fiercely. Primitives hunt, pack of wild dogs, guard, house, glue Kunyomi: か.る、か.り、-が.り Onyomi: シュ Lesson: 11 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 狩り (か.り), 狩る (か.る)
"cat Details Story Dictionary 猫 cat Heisig's Knowing how much dogs love to chase cats, picture a pack of wild dogs planting ""cat-seedlings,"" watering them, and fertilizing them until they can be harvested as a crop of cats for them to chase and torment. If you begin from the key word and think of a ""crop of cats,"" you will not confuse this story with the apparently similar story of two frames ago. Koohii #1 The cat hid in the FLOWERS of the FIELD from the WILD DOGs. Koohii #2 Dawgs always wanna put their seedlings in pussies. Primitives cat, pack of wild dogs, seedlings, flowers, rice field, brains 猫(ねこ): cat Kunyomi: ねこ Onyomi: ビョウ Lesson: 11 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 猫 (ねこ)"	"cat 猫 画数11 259 Details Story Dictionary 猫 cat Heisig's Knowing how much dogs love to chase cats, picture a pack of wild dogs planting ""cat-seedlings,"" watering them, and fertilizing them until they can be harvested as a crop of cats for them to chase and torment. If you begin from the key word and think of a ""crop of cats,"" you will not confuse this story with the apparently similar story of two frames ago. Koohii #1 The cat hid in the FLOWERS of the FIELD from the WILD DOGs. Koohii #2 Dawgs always wanna put their seedlings in pussies. Primitives cat, pack of wild dogs, seedlings, flowers, rice field, brains 猫(ねこ): cat Kunyomi: ねこ Onyomi: ビョウ Lesson: 11 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 猫 (ねこ)"
"cow Details Story Dictionary 牛 cow Heisig's Can you the ""doodle"" of a cow that has just been run over by a steamroller? The small dot in the first stroke shows its head turned to one side, and the next two strokes, the four legs. * As a primitive, the same sense of cow is kept. Note only that when it is placed OVER another element, its tail is cut off. In this case, and when the element appears on the left, the stroke order is changed. Koohii #1 A cow tried to climb up a vermilion tree, but in doing so, it broke its two bottom branches off. Koohii #2 A cow bleeds vermilion when you cut off two of it´s legs. Primitives cow 牛(うし): cattle, cow 牛乳(ぎゅうにゅう): cow´s milk 牛肉(ぎゅうにく): beef Kunyomi: うし Onyomi: ギュウ Lesson: 11 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 牛 (うし)"	"cow 牛 画数4 260 Details Story Dictionary 牛 cow Heisig's Can you the ""doodle"" of a cow that has just been run over by a steamroller? The small dot in the first stroke shows its head turned to one side, and the next two strokes, the four legs. * As a primitive, the same sense of cow is kept. Note only that when it is placed OVER another element, its tail is cut off. In this case, and when the element appears on the left, the stroke order is changed. Koohii #1 A cow tried to climb up a vermilion tree, but in doing so, it broke its two bottom branches off. Koohii #2 A cow bleeds vermilion when you cut off two of it´s legs. Primitives cow 牛(うし): cattle, cow 牛乳(ぎゅうにゅう): cow´s milk 牛肉(ぎゅうにく): beef Kunyomi: うし Onyomi: ギュウ Lesson: 11 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 牛 (うし)"
"special Details Story Dictionary 特 special My Story [Cow + Buddhist temple] This *cow* is special enough to be in the *Buddhist temple*. Koohii #1 Think of not special people, but special animals. The sacred Hindu cows are special - they can wander around the temple without fear of becoming roast beef. Koohii #2 The Church Lady is traveling through Japan and notices with distaste a sacred cow relieving itself inside a Buddhist Temple. ""Well, isn´t that special"". Primitives special, cow, Buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue 特技(とくぎ): special skill 特産(とくさん): specialty, special product 特集(とくしゅう): feature (e.g. newspaper), special edition, report 特派(とくは): send specially, special envoy 特有(とくゆう): characteristic (of), peculiar (to) 特許(とっきょ): special permission, patent 特権(とっけん): privilege, special right 特殊(とくしゅ): special, unique 特色(とくしょく): characteristic, feature 特長(とくちょう): forte, merit 特徴(とくちょう): feature, characteristic 特定(とくてい): specific, special, particular 独特(どくとく): peculiarity, uniqueness, characteristic 特売(とくばい): special sale 特急(とっきゅう): limited express (train, faster than an express) 特に(とくに): specially 特別(とくべつ): special Kunyomi: Onyomi: トク Lesson: 11 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:"	"special 特 画数10 261 Details Story Dictionary 特 special My Story [Cow + Buddhist temple] This *cow* is special enough to be in the *Buddhist temple*. Koohii #1 Think of not special people, but special animals. The sacred Hindu cows are special - they can wander around the temple without fear of becoming roast beef. Koohii #2 The Church Lady is traveling through Japan and notices with distaste a sacred cow relieving itself inside a Buddhist Temple. ""Well, isn´t that special"". Primitives special, cow, Buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue 特技(とくぎ): special skill 特産(とくさん): specialty, special product 特集(とくしゅう): feature (e.g. newspaper), special edition, report 特派(とくは): send specially, special envoy 特有(とくゆう): characteristic (of), peculiar (to) 特許(とっきょ): special permission, patent 特権(とっけん): privilege, special right 特殊(とくしゅ): special, unique 特色(とくしょく): characteristic, feature 特長(とくちょう): forte, merit 特徴(とくちょう): feature, characteristic 特定(とくてい): specific, special, particular 独特(どくとく): peculiarity, uniqueness, characteristic 特売(とくばい): special sale 特急(とっきゅう): limited express (train, faster than an express) 特に(とくに): specially 特別(とくべつ): special Kunyomi: Onyomi: トク Lesson: 11 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:"
"revelation Details Story Dictionary 告 revelation My Story Out of the 牛 口 came a 告. Koohii #1 The revelation makes the cow´s mouth drop down, ""Hamburgers are made of what?!"". Koohii #2 When you get a revelation, you may drop to the ground with your mouth wide open. Primitives revelation, cow, mouth 勧告(かんこく): advice, counsel, remonstrance, recommendation 告白(こくはく): confession, acknowledgement 申告(しんこく): report, statement, filing a return, notification 忠告(ちゅうこく): advice, warning 告げる(つげる): to inform 布告(ふこく): edict, ordinance, proclamation 警告(けいこく): warning, advice 広告(こうこく): advertisement 報告(ほうこく): report, information Kunyomi: つ.げる Onyomi: コク Lesson: 11 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 告げる (つ.げる)"	"revelation 告 画数7 262 Details Story Dictionary 告 revelation My Story Out of the 牛 口 came a 告. Koohii #1 The revelation makes the cow´s mouth drop down, ""Hamburgers are made of what?!"". Koohii #2 When you get a revelation, you may drop to the ground with your mouth wide open. Primitives revelation, cow, mouth 勧告(かんこく): advice, counsel, remonstrance, recommendation 告白(こくはく): confession, acknowledgement 申告(しんこく): report, statement, filing a return, notification 忠告(ちゅうこく): advice, warning 告げる(つげる): to inform 布告(ふこく): edict, ordinance, proclamation 警告(けいこく): warning, advice 広告(こうこく): advertisement 報告(ほうこく): report, information Kunyomi: つ.げる Onyomi: コク Lesson: 11 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 告げる (つ.げる)"
"before Details Story Dictionary 先 before Heisig's Take this key word in its physical, not its temporal, sense (even though it refers to both). If you have a cow with human legs, as the elements show us here, it can only be because you have two people in a cow-suit. I always thought I'd prefer to be the one standing before, rather than the one that holds up the rear and becomes the ""butt"" of everyone's laughter. Koohii #1 I´ve never seen a cow with human legs before! Koohii #2 Nasty story but it keeps the meaning true to the kanji. ""BEFORE you stick it in a COW and SPREAD the legs (the bottom stroke of this cow looks like two legs) make sure she has HUMAN LEGS""-------------sorry, I´ll remove if I get enough reports, but will keep if I get more stars. Primitives before, cow, human legs お先に(おさきに): before, ahead, previously 先に(さきに): before, earlier than, ahead, beyond, away, previously, recently 先行(せんこう): preceding, going first 先代(せんだい): family predecessor, previous age, previous generation 先だって(せんだって): recently, the other day 先着(せんちゃく): first arrival 先天的(せんてんてき): a priori, inborn, innate, inherent, congenital, hereditary 勤め先(つとめさき): place of work 優先(ゆうせん): preference, priority 先程(さきほど): some time ago 先日(せんじつ): the other day, a few days ago 先々月(せんせんげつ): month before last 先々週(せんせんしゅう): week before last 先祖(せんぞ): ancestor 先端(せんたん): pointed end, tip, fine point, spearhead, cusp, vanguard, advanced, leading edge 先頭(せんとう): head, lead, vanguard, first 祖先(そせん): ancestor 先ず(まず): at first 真っ先(まっさき): the head, the foremost, beginning 先輩(せんぱい): one´s senior 先(さき): the future, forward, priority, precedence, former, previous, old, late 先月(せんげつ): last month 先週(せんしゅう): last week, the week before 先生(せんせい): teacher, master, doctor Kunyomi: さき、ま.ず Onyomi: セン Lesson: 11 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 先 (さき)"	"before 先 画数6 263 Details Story Dictionary 先 before Heisig's Take this key word in its physical, not its temporal, sense (even though it refers to both). If you have a cow with human legs, as the elements show us here, it can only be because you have two people in a cow-suit. I always thought I'd prefer to be the one standing before, rather than the one that holds up the rear and becomes the ""butt"" of everyone's laughter. Koohii #1 I´ve never seen a cow with human legs before! Koohii #2 Nasty story but it keeps the meaning true to the kanji. ""BEFORE you stick it in a COW and SPREAD the legs (the bottom stroke of this cow looks like two legs) make sure she has HUMAN LEGS""-------------sorry, I´ll remove if I get enough reports, but will keep if I get more stars. Primitives before, cow, human legs お先に(おさきに): before, ahead, previously 先に(さきに): before, earlier than, ahead, beyond, away, previously, recently 先行(せんこう): preceding, going first 先代(せんだい): family predecessor, previous age, previous generation 先だって(せんだって): recently, the other day 先着(せんちゃく): first arrival 先天的(せんてんてき): a priori, inborn, innate, inherent, congenital, hereditary 勤め先(つとめさき): place of work 優先(ゆうせん): preference, priority 先程(さきほど): some time ago 先日(せんじつ): the other day, a few days ago 先々月(せんせんげつ): month before last 先々週(せんせんしゅう): week before last 先祖(せんぞ): ancestor 先端(せんたん): pointed end, tip, fine point, spearhead, cusp, vanguard, advanced, leading edge 先頭(せんとう): head, lead, vanguard, first 祖先(そせん): ancestor 先ず(まず): at first 真っ先(まっさき): the head, the foremost, beginning 先輩(せんぱい): one´s senior 先(さき): the future, forward, priority, precedence, former, previous, old, late 先月(せんげつ): last month 先週(せんしゅう): last week, the week before 先生(せんせい): teacher, master, doctor Kunyomi: さき、ま.ず Onyomi: セン Lesson: 11 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 先 (さき)"
wash Details Story Dictionary 洗 wash My Story [Water + Before {先} ] Wash with *water*,.... *before* the slaughter Koohii #1 In Japan, you always wash with water from the shower before you enter the bathtub. Koohii #2 You wash things with WATER to get them back to the clean state they were in BEFORE. Primitives wash, water, water droplets, water pistol, before, cow, human legs 水洗(すいせん): flushing 洗剤(せんざい): detergent, washing material 手洗い(てあらい): restroom, lavatory, hand-washing 洗う(あらう): to wash お手洗い(おてあらい): toilet, restroom, lavatory, bathroom (US) 洗濯(せんたく): washing, laundry Kunyomi: あら.う Onyomi: セン Lesson: 11 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 洗う (あら.う)	wash 洗 画数9 264 Details Story Dictionary 洗 wash My Story [Water + Before {先} ] Wash with *water*,.... *before* the slaughter Koohii #1 In Japan, you always wash with water from the shower before you enter the bathtub. Koohii #2 You wash things with WATER to get them back to the clean state they were in BEFORE. Primitives wash, water, water droplets, water pistol, before, cow, human legs 水洗(すいせん): flushing 洗剤(せんざい): detergent, washing material 手洗い(てあらい): restroom, lavatory, hand-washing 洗う(あらう): to wash お手洗い(おてあらい): toilet, restroom, lavatory, bathroom (US) 洗濯(せんたく): washing, laundry Kunyomi: あら.う Onyomi: セン Lesson: 11 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 洗う (あら.う)
"jammed in Details Story Dictionary 介 jammed in Heisig's The idea of something getting jammed into something else is depicted here by having a walking stick get jammed into an umbrella frame by someone shoving it into an already occupied slot in the umbrella stand at the door. First notice the vertical strokes: on the left is the curved umbrella handle, and on the right the straight walking stick. Now try to imagine the two parties tugging at their respective properties like two kids on a wishbone, creating a scene at the entrance of an elegant restaurant. Koohii #1 The two strokes at the bottom look like a J and I, which stands for ""jammed in."". Koohii #2 Two people jammed in under an umbrella. A woman with a dress and a man (straight). It´s always me that ends up getting wet.... but the tail of the skirt is this time! Primitives jammed in, umbrella, stick, walking cane 介護(かいご): nursing 介入(かいにゅう): intervention 介抱(かいほう): nursing, looking after 厄介(やっかい): trouble, burden, care, bother, worry, dependence, support, kindness, obligation 紹介(しょうかい): introduce Kunyomi: Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"jammed in 介 画数4 265 Details Story Dictionary 介 jammed in Heisig's The idea of something getting jammed into something else is depicted here by having a walking stick get jammed into an umbrella frame by someone shoving it into an already occupied slot in the umbrella stand at the door. First notice the vertical strokes: on the left is the curved umbrella handle, and on the right the straight walking stick. Now try to imagine the two parties tugging at their respective properties like two kids on a wishbone, creating a scene at the entrance of an elegant restaurant. Koohii #1 The two strokes at the bottom look like a J and I, which stands for ""jammed in."". Koohii #2 Two people jammed in under an umbrella. A woman with a dress and a man (straight). It´s always me that ends up getting wet.... but the tail of the skirt is this time! Primitives jammed in, umbrella, stick, walking cane 介護(かいご): nursing 介入(かいにゅう): intervention 介抱(かいほう): nursing, looking after 厄介(やっかい): trouble, burden, care, bother, worry, dependence, support, kindness, obligation 紹介(しょうかい): introduce Kunyomi: Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
world Details Story Dictionary 界 world Heisig's As the world gets jammed with more and more people, there is less and less space. Imagine yourself taking an air flight over a world so densely populated that every bit of it is sectioned off like a gigantic checkerboard (the rice fields). If you look closely at the character, you should be able to see a kind of movement taking place as still more is being jammed into that already narrow space. Koohii #1 One Japanese farmer I know is so small minded that he thinks the entire world is JAMMED IN the borders of his little RICE FIELD. Koohii #2 A famous philosopher once said that his world consisted of all the things he could jam into his brain. Primitives world, rice field, brains, jammed in, umbrella, stick, cane 境界(きょうかい): boundary 限界(げんかい): limit, bound 世界(せかい): world Kunyomi: Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:	world 界 画数9 266 Details Story Dictionary 界 world Heisig's As the world gets jammed with more and more people, there is less and less space. Imagine yourself taking an air flight over a world so densely populated that every bit of it is sectioned off like a gigantic checkerboard (the rice fields). If you look closely at the character, you should be able to see a kind of movement taking place as still more is being jammed into that already narrow space. Koohii #1 One Japanese farmer I know is so small minded that he thinks the entire world is JAMMED IN the borders of his little RICE FIELD. Koohii #2 A famous philosopher once said that his world consisted of all the things he could jam into his brain. Primitives world, rice field, brains, jammed in, umbrella, stick, cane 境界(きょうかい): boundary 限界(げんかい): limit, bound 世界(せかい): world Kunyomi: Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:
"tea Details Story Dictionary 茶 tea Heisig's As everyone knows, tea is made from tea leaves. But the tea plant itself has its own flowers, which can be quite beautiful and add a special flavor to the tea, as the Chinese found out already over 4,598 years ago. With the image of a terrace of flowering tea bushes in mind, picture a number of brightly painted and very l-o-n-g wooden poles (Frame 207) placed here and there in their midst, with a tiny umbrella at the top to shade the delicate-tasting tea flowers. Koohii #1 Some people think drinking tea is boring and quaint. That´s why I spice mine up by adding a cocktail umbrella, which of course is made from a wood-en toothpick supporting a paper umbrella with flowers printed on top. Koohii #2 When I drink herbal tea I like to drink it under a parasol. If it´s too hot I go ""ho, ho, ho !!"" (katakana ホ). Primitives tea, flowers, umbrella, wooden pole 喫茶(きっさ): tea drinking, tea house 焦げ茶(こげちゃ): black tea 茶の間(ちゃのま): living room (Japanese style) 茶の湯(ちゃのゆ): tea ceremony 茶碗(ちゃわん): tea cup, rice bowl 無茶(むちゃ): absurd, unreasonable, excessive, rash, absurdity, nonsense 無茶苦茶(むちゃくちゃ): confused, jumbled, mixed up, unreasonable 滅茶苦茶(めちゃくちゃ): absurd, unreasonable, excessive, messed up, spoiled, wreaked 紅茶(こうちゃ): black tea 茶(ちゃ): tea 茶色い(ちゃいろい): brown (adjective) お茶(おちゃ): tea (green) 喫茶店(きっさてん): coffee shop 茶色(ちゃいろ): light brown, tawny Kunyomi: Onyomi: チャ、サ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 茶色 (ちゃいろ), 茶番劇 (ちゃばんげき), 番茶 (ばんちゃ)"	"tea 茶 画数9 267 Details Story Dictionary 茶 tea Heisig's As everyone knows, tea is made from tea leaves. But the tea plant itself has its own flowers, which can be quite beautiful and add a special flavor to the tea, as the Chinese found out already over 4,598 years ago. With the image of a terrace of flowering tea bushes in mind, picture a number of brightly painted and very l-o-n-g wooden poles (Frame 207) placed here and there in their midst, with a tiny umbrella at the top to shade the delicate-tasting tea flowers. Koohii #1 Some people think drinking tea is boring and quaint. That´s why I spice mine up by adding a cocktail umbrella, which of course is made from a wood-en toothpick supporting a paper umbrella with flowers printed on top. Koohii #2 When I drink herbal tea I like to drink it under a parasol. If it´s too hot I go ""ho, ho, ho !!"" (katakana ホ). Primitives tea, flowers, umbrella, wooden pole 喫茶(きっさ): tea drinking, tea house 焦げ茶(こげちゃ): black tea 茶の間(ちゃのま): living room (Japanese style) 茶の湯(ちゃのゆ): tea ceremony 茶碗(ちゃわん): tea cup, rice bowl 無茶(むちゃ): absurd, unreasonable, excessive, rash, absurdity, nonsense 無茶苦茶(むちゃくちゃ): confused, jumbled, mixed up, unreasonable 滅茶苦茶(めちゃくちゃ): absurd, unreasonable, excessive, messed up, spoiled, wreaked 紅茶(こうちゃ): black tea 茶(ちゃ): tea 茶色い(ちゃいろい): brown (adjective) お茶(おちゃ): tea (green) 喫茶店(きっさてん): coffee shop 茶色(ちゃいろ): light brown, tawny Kunyomi: Onyomi: チャ、サ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 茶色 (ちゃいろ), 茶番劇 (ちゃばんげき), 番茶 (ばんちゃ)"
"spinal column Details Story Dictionary 脊 spinal column Heisig's The spinal column has sprouted out of the flesh of your back into an umbrella that you always have with you, rain or shine. The pair of 2s on each side are the ""ribs"" of the umbrella. Take care to keep your image of the key word distinct from that for spine (Frame 24). Koohii #1 Look, says the teacher in biology class. ""The spinal column holds your flesh together, just like the metal rod of this umbrella (he demonstrates this with an umbrella covered in I-Ching symbols) holds the umbrella together"". Koohii #2 A pictograph of a spinal column. The umbrella representing the shoulder blades, the I Ching as the shoulder muscles and the part of the body as the spine itself. Primitives spinal column, I Ching, Master Po, umbrella, moon, month, flesh, part of the body Kunyomi: せ、せい Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"spinal column 脊 画数10 268 Details Story Dictionary 脊 spinal column Heisig's The spinal column has sprouted out of the flesh of your back into an umbrella that you always have with you, rain or shine. The pair of 2s on each side are the ""ribs"" of the umbrella. Take care to keep your image of the key word distinct from that for spine (Frame 24). Koohii #1 Look, says the teacher in biology class. ""The spinal column holds your flesh together, just like the metal rod of this umbrella (he demonstrates this with an umbrella covered in I-Ching symbols) holds the umbrella together"". Koohii #2 A pictograph of a spinal column. The umbrella representing the shoulder blades, the I Ching as the shoulder muscles and the part of the body as the spine itself. Primitives spinal column, I Ching, Master Po, umbrella, moon, month, flesh, part of the body Kunyomi: せ、せい Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
fit Details Story Dictionary 合 fit My Story The umbrella did not fit in his Mouth. Koohii #1 I wouldn´t mind a meeting of mouths with her, she´s really fit ! Koohii #2 He had such a big mouth that he could easily fit one whole umbrella in it. Primitives fit, meeting, umbrella, one, mouth 合間(あいま): interval 合わす(あわす): to join together, to face, to unite, to be opposite, to combine, to connect, to add up, to mix, to match, to overlap, to compare, to check with 合わせ(あわせ): joint together, opposite, facing 打ち合わせ(うちあわせ): business meeting, previous arrangement, appointment 打ち合わせる(うちあわせる): to knock together, to arrange 化合(かごう): chemical combination 合唱(がっしょう): chorus, singing in a chorus 合致(がっち): agreement, concurrence, conforming to 合併(がっぺい): combination, union, amalgamation, consolidation, merger, coalition, fusion, annexation, affiliation, incorporation 組み合わせ(くみあわせ): combination 組み合わせる(くみあわせる): to join together, to combine, to join up 結合(けつごう): combination, union 合意(ごうい): agreement, consent, mutual understanding 合議(ごうぎ): consultation, conference 合成(ごうせい): synthesis, composition, synthetic, composite, mixed, combined, compound 照合(しょうごう): collation, comparison 知り合い(しりあい): acquaintance 総合(そうごう): synthesis, coordination, putting together, integration, composite 付き合う(つきあう): to associate with, to keep company with, to get on with 出合う(であう): to meet by chance, to come across, to happen to encounter, to hold a rendezvous, to have a date 問い合わせる(といあわせる): to enquire, to seek information 統合(とうごう): integration, unification, synthesis 話し合い(はなしあい): discussion, conference 複合(ふくごう): composite, complex 待ち合わせ(まちあわせ): appointment 間に合う(まにあう): to be in time (for) 見合い(みあい): formal marriage interview 見合わせる(みあわせる): to exchange glances, to postpone, to suspend operations, to refrain from performing an action 割合(わりあい): rate, ratio, proportion, comparatively, contrary to expectations 合図(あいず): sign, signal 合わせる(あわせる): join together, connect, unite, combine, add up, mix, match, overlap, be opposite, face, compare, check with 打合せ(うちあわせ): business meeting, appointment, previous arrangement 会合(かいごう): meeting, assembly 組合(くみあい): association, union 合格(ごうかく): success, passing (e.g. exam), eligibility 合計(ごうけい): sum total, total amount 合同(ごうどう): combination, incorporation, union, amalgamation, fusion, congruence 合理(ごうり): rational 合流(ごうりゅう): confluence, union, linking up, merge 混合(こんごう): mixing, mixture 集合(しゅうごう): gathering, assembly, meeting, (mathematics) set 付き合い(つきあい): association, socializing, fellowship 付合う(つきあう): associate with, keep company with, get on with 釣り合う(つりあう): balance, be in harmony, suit 出合い(であい): an encounter 問い合わせ(といあわせ): enquiry 似合う(にあう): suit, match, become, be like 話し合う(はなしあう): discuss, talk together 待合室(まちあいしつ): waiting room 待ち合わせる(まちあわせる): rendezvous, meet at a prearranged place and time 連合(れんごう): union, alliance 合う(あう): fit, suit, be correct 具合(ぐあい): condition 試合(しあい): game 都合(つごう): circumstances, convenience 場合(ばあい): case, occasion 割合に(わりあいに): comparatively Kunyomi: あ.う、-あ.う、あ.い、あい-、-あ.い、-あい、あ.わす、あ.わせる、-あ.わせる Onyomi: ゴウ、ガッ、カッ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 合同 (ごうどう), 合計 (ごうけい), 結合 (けつごう), 合併 (がっぺい), 合宿 (がっしゅく), 合点 (がてん), 合う (あ.う), 合わす (あ.わす), 合わせる (あ.わせる)	fit 合 画数6 269 Details Story Dictionary 合 fit My Story The umbrella did not fit in his Mouth. Koohii #1 I wouldn´t mind a meeting of mouths with her, she´s really fit ! Koohii #2 He had such a big mouth that he could easily fit one whole umbrella in it. Primitives fit, meeting, umbrella, one, mouth 合間(あいま): interval 合わす(あわす): to join together, to face, to unite, to be opposite, to combine, to connect, to add up, to mix, to match, to overlap, to compare, to check with 合わせ(あわせ): joint together, opposite, facing 打ち合わせ(うちあわせ): business meeting, previous arrangement, appointment 打ち合わせる(うちあわせる): to knock together, to arrange 化合(かごう): chemical combination 合唱(がっしょう): chorus, singing in a chorus 合致(がっち): agreement, concurrence, conforming to 合併(がっぺい): combination, union, amalgamation, consolidation, merger, coalition, fusion, annexation, affiliation, incorporation 組み合わせ(くみあわせ): combination 組み合わせる(くみあわせる): to join together, to combine, to join up 結合(けつごう): combination, union 合意(ごうい): agreement, consent, mutual understanding 合議(ごうぎ): consultation, conference 合成(ごうせい): synthesis, composition, synthetic, composite, mixed, combined, compound 照合(しょうごう): collation, comparison 知り合い(しりあい): acquaintance 総合(そうごう): synthesis, coordination, putting together, integration, composite 付き合う(つきあう): to associate with, to keep company with, to get on with 出合う(であう): to meet by chance, to come across, to happen to encounter, to hold a rendezvous, to have a date 問い合わせる(といあわせる): to enquire, to seek information 統合(とうごう): integration, unification, synthesis 話し合い(はなしあい): discussion, conference 複合(ふくごう): composite, complex 待ち合わせ(まちあわせ): appointment 間に合う(まにあう): to be in time (for) 見合い(みあい): formal marriage interview 見合わせる(みあわせる): to exchange glances, to postpone, to suspend operations, to refrain from performing an action 割合(わりあい): rate, ratio, proportion, comparatively, contrary to expectations 合図(あいず): sign, signal 合わせる(あわせる): join together, connect, unite, combine, add up, mix, match, overlap, be opposite, face, compare, check with 打合せ(うちあわせ): business meeting, appointment, previous arrangement 会合(かいごう): meeting, assembly 組合(くみあい): association, union 合格(ごうかく): success, passing (e.g. exam), eligibility 合計(ごうけい): sum total, total amount 合同(ごうどう): combination, incorporation, union, amalgamation, fusion, congruence 合理(ごうり): rational 合流(ごうりゅう): confluence, union, linking up, merge 混合(こんごう): mixing, mixture 集合(しゅうごう): gathering, assembly, meeting, (mathematics) set 付き合い(つきあい): association, socializing, fellowship 付合う(つきあう): associate with, keep company with, get on with 釣り合う(つりあう): balance, be in harmony, suit 出合い(であい): an encounter 問い合わせ(といあわせ): enquiry 似合う(にあう): suit, match, become, be like 話し合う(はなしあう): discuss, talk together 待合室(まちあいしつ): waiting room 待ち合わせる(まちあわせる): rendezvous, meet at a prearranged place and time 連合(れんごう): union, alliance 合う(あう): fit, suit, be correct 具合(ぐあい): condition 試合(しあい): game 都合(つごう): circumstances, convenience 場合(ばあい): case, occasion 割合に(わりあいに): comparatively Kunyomi: あ.う、-あ.う、あ.い、あい-、-あ.い、-あい、あ.わす、あ.わせる、-あ.わせる Onyomi: ゴウ、ガッ、カッ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 合同 (ごうどう), 合計 (ごうけい), 結合 (けつごう), 合併 (がっぺい), 合宿 (がっしゅく), 合点 (がてん), 合う (あ.う), 合わす (あ.わす), 合わせる (あ.わせる)
pagoda Details Story Dictionary 塔 pagoda Heisig's On the left we see a mound of dirt, and to the right flowers made to fit together. The two sides combine to create a great pagoda made of dirt, with flowers by the tens of thousands fitted together for the roofing of each of the layers. Be sure to put yourself in the scene and fit a few of the flowers in place yourself so that the image works its way into memory with full force. Koohii #1 In order to build a pagoda in this small Japanese garden everything has to fit: the soil to the left and the flowers in the upper right corner. Koohii #2 Pictograph-o-rama. This is a corner of a Japanese garden, with a small mound of soil on the left, and a little concrete pagoda in the front with flowers behind it. (To my eye, the fit looks a lot like a little pagoda anyway. This may or may not cause confusion for you, though...). Primitives pagoda, soil, dirt, ground, flowers, fit, meeting, umbrella, one, mouth 塔(とう): tower, pagoda Kunyomi: Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	pagoda 塔 画数12 270 Details Story Dictionary 塔 pagoda Heisig's On the left we see a mound of dirt, and to the right flowers made to fit together. The two sides combine to create a great pagoda made of dirt, with flowers by the tens of thousands fitted together for the roofing of each of the layers. Be sure to put yourself in the scene and fit a few of the flowers in place yourself so that the image works its way into memory with full force. Koohii #1 In order to build a pagoda in this small Japanese garden everything has to fit: the soil to the left and the flowers in the upper right corner. Koohii #2 Pictograph-o-rama. This is a corner of a Japanese garden, with a small mound of soil on the left, and a little concrete pagoda in the front with flowers behind it. (To my eye, the fit looks a lot like a little pagoda anyway. This may or may not cause confusion for you, though...). Primitives pagoda, soil, dirt, ground, flowers, fit, meeting, umbrella, one, mouth 塔(とう): tower, pagoda Kunyomi: Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
king Details Story Dictionary 王 king Heisig's See what you can do to come up with a pictograph of a king's scepter here that suits your own idea of what it should look like. You might even begin with the basic element for I beam and then try to fit the remaining third stroke in. * As a primitive, this can mean either king or scepter, but it will usually be taken to mean ball, as an abbreviation of the character in the next frame. Koohii #1 To be king you have to be a real crafty one ! Koohii #2 The king unites heaven and earth. (imagine heaven being the top line over the soil). Primitives king, jewel, ball 王(おう): king 王様(おうさま): king 王子(おうじ): prince 王女(おうじょ): princess 国王(こくおう): king 女王(じょおう): queen Kunyomi: Onyomi: オウ、ノウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	king 王 画数4 271 Details Story Dictionary 王 king Heisig's See what you can do to come up with a pictograph of a king's scepter here that suits your own idea of what it should look like. You might even begin with the basic element for I beam and then try to fit the remaining third stroke in. * As a primitive, this can mean either king or scepter, but it will usually be taken to mean ball, as an abbreviation of the character in the next frame. Koohii #1 To be king you have to be a real crafty one ! Koohii #2 The king unites heaven and earth. (imagine heaven being the top line over the soil). Primitives king, jewel, ball 王(おう): king 王様(おうさま): king 王子(おうじ): prince 王女(おうじょ): princess 国王(こくおう): king 女王(じょおう): queen Kunyomi: Onyomi: オウ、ノウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
"jewel Details Story Dictionary 玉 jewel Heisig's Note the drop here in the king's scepter, which is exactly what you would expect it to be: a precious jewel handed down from of old as a symbol of his wealth and power. * As a primitive, we can use this to mean either jewel or ball. When it appears anywhere other than on the left side of a kanji, it takes the same shape as here. On the left, it will be lacking the final stroke, making it the same as the character in the previous frame. Koohii #1 The king is said to have only one family jewel below the belt... Koohii #2 The king is said to have only one family jewel below the belt...and he hangs left! (I always screw up the direction of the ""drop""). Primitives jewel, king, jewel, ball, earring, drop 玉(ぎょく): king (shogi) 玉(たま): ball, sphere, coin Kunyomi: たま、たま-、-だま Onyomi: ギョク Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 玉 (たま)"	"jewel 玉 画数5 272 Details Story Dictionary 玉 jewel Heisig's Note the drop here in the king's scepter, which is exactly what you would expect it to be: a precious jewel handed down from of old as a symbol of his wealth and power. * As a primitive, we can use this to mean either jewel or ball. When it appears anywhere other than on the left side of a kanji, it takes the same shape as here. On the left, it will be lacking the final stroke, making it the same as the character in the previous frame. Koohii #1 The king is said to have only one family jewel below the belt... Koohii #2 The king is said to have only one family jewel below the belt...and he hangs left! (I always screw up the direction of the ""drop""). Primitives jewel, king, jewel, ball, earring, drop 玉(ぎょく): king (shogi) 玉(たま): ball, sphere, coin Kunyomi: たま、たま-、-だま Onyomi: ギョク Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 玉 (たま)"
"treasure Details Story Dictionary 宝 treasure Heisig's Every house has its treasure, as every thief knows only too well. While the things we treasure most are usually of sentimental value, we take the original sense of the term treasure here and make it refer to jewels kept in one's house. Koohii #1 On treasure island is a single house - where all the jewels are stored. Koohii #2 Put a ""roof"" (lid) on your jewels and voila! You´ve got a treasure chest. Primitives treasure, house, king, jewel, ball, earring, drop 重宝(じゅうほう): priceless treasure, convenience, usefulness 宝器(ほうき): treasured article or vessel, outstanding individual 宝(たから): treasure 宝石(ほうせき): gem, jewel Kunyomi: たから Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 宝 (たから)"	"treasure 宝 画数8 273 Details Story Dictionary 宝 treasure Heisig's Every house has its treasure, as every thief knows only too well. While the things we treasure most are usually of sentimental value, we take the original sense of the term treasure here and make it refer to jewels kept in one's house. Koohii #1 On treasure island is a single house - where all the jewels are stored. Koohii #2 Put a ""roof"" (lid) on your jewels and voila! You´ve got a treasure chest. Primitives treasure, house, king, jewel, ball, earring, drop 重宝(じゅうほう): priceless treasure, convenience, usefulness 宝器(ほうき): treasured article or vessel, outstanding individual 宝(たから): treasure 宝石(ほうせき): gem, jewel Kunyomi: たから Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 宝 (たから)"
pearl Details Story Dictionary 珠 pearl Heisig's Take care to keep the meaning of this kanji distinct from that for jewel. Think of the most enormous pearl you have ever seen, a great vermilion-colored ball sitting on your ring and making it extremely difficult to move without falling over from the weight of the thing. Koohii #1 The king of the Oysters produces special Vermillion pearls! Koohii #2 King Vermillion is a little queer and likes to wear pearl necklaces. Primitives pearl, king, jewel, ball, vermillion, drop, not yet, one, tree, wood 真珠(しんじゅ): pearl Kunyomi: たま Onyomi: シュ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	pearl 珠 画数10 274 Details Story Dictionary 珠 pearl Heisig's Take care to keep the meaning of this kanji distinct from that for jewel. Think of the most enormous pearl you have ever seen, a great vermilion-colored ball sitting on your ring and making it extremely difficult to move without falling over from the weight of the thing. Koohii #1 The king of the Oysters produces special Vermillion pearls! Koohii #2 King Vermillion is a little queer and likes to wear pearl necklaces. Primitives pearl, king, jewel, ball, vermillion, drop, not yet, one, tree, wood 真珠(しんじゅ): pearl Kunyomi: たま Onyomi: シュ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
present Details Story Dictionary 現 present My Story [King + see] *The King* can *See* the present state of affairs. Koohii #1 The KING ... can SEE clearly the PRESENT state of affairs in the land. (maybe he hees them in the crystal ball on the left?). Koohii #2 Hey, I want my money back! This crystal ball is out of order, I can see the present instead of the future! Primitives present, king, jewel, ball, see, telescope, eye, human legs 現われ(あらわれ): embodiment, materialization 現われる(あらわれる): to appear, to come in sight, to become visible, to come out, to embody, to materialize, to express oneself 現行(げんこう): present, current, in operation 現場(げんじょう): actual spot, scene, scene of the crime 現像(げんぞう): developing (film) 現地(げんち): actual place, local 再現(さいげん): reappearance, reproduction, return, revival 現す(あらわす): indicate, show, display 現れ(あらわれ): embodiment 現れる(あらわれる): appear, embody, express oneself 現金(げんきん): cash, ready money, mercenary, self-interested 現在(げんざい): present, up to now, nowadays, modern times, current 現実(げんじつ): reality 現象(げんしょう): phenomenon 現状(げんじょう): present condition, existing state, status quo 現代(げんだい): nowadays, modern times, present-day 現に(げんに): actually, really 現場(げんば): actual spot, scene, scene of the crime 実現(じつげん): implementation, materialization, realization 表現(ひょうげん): expression, presentation, (mathematics) representation Kunyomi: あらわ.れる、あらわ.す、うつつ、うつ.つ Onyomi: ゲン Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 現す (あらわ.す), 現れる (あらわ.れる)	present 現 画数11 275 Details Story Dictionary 現 present My Story [King + see] *The King* can *See* the present state of affairs. Koohii #1 The KING ... can SEE clearly the PRESENT state of affairs in the land. (maybe he hees them in the crystal ball on the left?). Koohii #2 Hey, I want my money back! This crystal ball is out of order, I can see the present instead of the future! Primitives present, king, jewel, ball, see, telescope, eye, human legs 現われ(あらわれ): embodiment, materialization 現われる(あらわれる): to appear, to come in sight, to become visible, to come out, to embody, to materialize, to express oneself 現行(げんこう): present, current, in operation 現場(げんじょう): actual spot, scene, scene of the crime 現像(げんぞう): developing (film) 現地(げんち): actual place, local 再現(さいげん): reappearance, reproduction, return, revival 現す(あらわす): indicate, show, display 現れ(あらわれ): embodiment 現れる(あらわれる): appear, embody, express oneself 現金(げんきん): cash, ready money, mercenary, self-interested 現在(げんざい): present, up to now, nowadays, modern times, current 現実(げんじつ): reality 現象(げんしょう): phenomenon 現状(げんじょう): present condition, existing state, status quo 現代(げんだい): nowadays, modern times, present-day 現に(げんに): actually, really 現場(げんば): actual spot, scene, scene of the crime 実現(じつげん): implementation, materialization, realization 表現(ひょうげん): expression, presentation, (mathematics) representation Kunyomi: あらわ.れる、あらわ.す、うつつ、うつ.つ Onyomi: ゲン Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 現す (あらわ.す), 現れる (あらわ.れる)
toy Details Story Dictionary 玩 toy Heisig's If, at some aboriginal level, Toys Я Us, then the archetypal ball must have been there at the beginning, before evolving into beach balls, ping-pong balls, rugby balls, and marbles. Koohii #1 The ball was the only thing that people at the beginning of time had to use as a toy. Poor cavemen. Koohii #2 And so it was, the ball marked the beginning of all the toys that were to come. Primitives toy, king, jewel, ball, beginning, two, human legs Kunyomi: もちあそ.ぶ、もてあそ.ぶ Onyomi: ガン Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	toy 玩 画数8 276 Details Story Dictionary 玩 toy Heisig's If, at some aboriginal level, Toys Я Us, then the archetypal ball must have been there at the beginning, before evolving into beach balls, ping-pong balls, rugby balls, and marbles. Koohii #1 The ball was the only thing that people at the beginning of time had to use as a toy. Poor cavemen. Koohii #2 And so it was, the ball marked the beginning of all the toys that were to come. Primitives toy, king, jewel, ball, beginning, two, human legs Kunyomi: もちあそ.ぶ、もてあそ.ぶ Onyomi: ガン Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
"lunatic Details Story Dictionary 狂 lunatic Heisig's A lunatic is literally one driven mad by the light of the moon, and the most famous of the ""looneys"" are the legendary lycanthropes or ""wolfmen."" Sometimes the transformation is only a temporary phenomenon, sometimes it is permanent. In the latter case, the poor chap takes off on all fours to live with the beasts. To remember this kanji, imagine one of these lycanthropes going looney and setting himself up as king of a pack of wild dogs that roams about and terrorizes innocent suburban communities. Koohii #1 Oh no ! A pack of dogs has bitten the king. He has turned into a rabid lunatic ! Koohii #2 Think of King Nebuchadnezzar, who for 7 years lost his sanity and had to live like a wild animal. Primitives lunatic, pack of wild dogs, king, jewel, ball 狂う(くるう): go mad, get out of order Kunyomi: くる.う、くる.おしい、くるお.しい Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 狂う (くる.う), 狂おしい (くる.おしい)"	"lunatic 狂 画数7 277 Details Story Dictionary 狂 lunatic Heisig's A lunatic is literally one driven mad by the light of the moon, and the most famous of the ""looneys"" are the legendary lycanthropes or ""wolfmen."" Sometimes the transformation is only a temporary phenomenon, sometimes it is permanent. In the latter case, the poor chap takes off on all fours to live with the beasts. To remember this kanji, imagine one of these lycanthropes going looney and setting himself up as king of a pack of wild dogs that roams about and terrorizes innocent suburban communities. Koohii #1 Oh no ! A pack of dogs has bitten the king. He has turned into a rabid lunatic ! Koohii #2 Think of King Nebuchadnezzar, who for 7 years lost his sanity and had to live like a wild animal. Primitives lunatic, pack of wild dogs, king, jewel, ball 狂う(くるう): go mad, get out of order Kunyomi: くる.う、くる.おしい、くるお.しい Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 狂う (くる.う), 狂おしい (くる.おしい)"
"effulgent Details Story Dictionary 旺 effulgent Heisig's The radiant, effulgent splendor of he sun makes it king of all the planets and other stars. Just to be sure you don't take this too abstractly, picture the sun seated on a throne, flourishing its scepter this way and that. Koohii #1 The Sun King (Louis XIV) was known for his effulgent reign. Koohii #2 [+katsuo] This is the Sun King. Sayeth Wikipedia: ""The Sun King (in French le Roi Soleil) because of the idea that, just as the planets revolve around the Sun, so too should France and the court revolve around [the king] (""http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louis_XIV_of_France). And just like the sun, he was quite effulgent and actually emitted sunlight. Primitives effulgent, sun, day, king, jewel, ball Kunyomi: かがや.き、うつくし.い、さかん Onyomi: オウ、キョウ、ゴウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"effulgent 旺 画数8 278 Details Story Dictionary 旺 effulgent Heisig's The radiant, effulgent splendor of he sun makes it king of all the planets and other stars. Just to be sure you don't take this too abstractly, picture the sun seated on a throne, flourishing its scepter this way and that. Koohii #1 The Sun King (Louis XIV) was known for his effulgent reign. Koohii #2 [+katsuo] This is the Sun King. Sayeth Wikipedia: ""The Sun King (in French le Roi Soleil) because of the idea that, just as the planets revolve around the Sun, so too should France and the court revolve around [the king] (""http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louis_XIV_of_France). And just like the sun, he was quite effulgent and actually emitted sunlight. Primitives effulgent, sun, day, king, jewel, ball Kunyomi: かがや.き、うつくし.い、さかん Onyomi: オウ、キョウ、ゴウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
emperor Details Story Dictionary 皇 emperor Heisig's An emperor, as we all know, is a ruler - something like a king but higher in status. The white bird perched above the king, elevating him to imperial heights, is the messenger he sends back and forth to the gods to request advice and special favors, something that white birds have long done in folklore throughout the world. Koohii #1 Ancient Rome had Emperors instead of Kings, and they wore white robes. Thus an emperor is a king in white. (make sure you picture a roman emperor not a japanese one and you´ll be ok). Koohii #2 The white dove descended on the king and he was promoted to emperor. Primitives emperor, white, dove, king, jewel, ball 皇居(こうきょ): Imperial Palace 天皇(すめらぎ): Emperor of Japan 天皇(てんのう): Emperor of Japan Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ、オウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 皇帝 (こうてい), 皇室 (こうしつ), 皇后 (こうごう)	emperor 皇 画数9 279 Details Story Dictionary 皇 emperor Heisig's An emperor, as we all know, is a ruler - something like a king but higher in status. The white bird perched above the king, elevating him to imperial heights, is the messenger he sends back and forth to the gods to request advice and special favors, something that white birds have long done in folklore throughout the world. Koohii #1 Ancient Rome had Emperors instead of Kings, and they wore white robes. Thus an emperor is a king in white. (make sure you picture a roman emperor not a japanese one and you´ll be ok). Koohii #2 The white dove descended on the king and he was promoted to emperor. Primitives emperor, white, dove, king, jewel, ball 皇居(こうきょ): Imperial Palace 天皇(すめらぎ): Emperor of Japan 天皇(てんのう): Emperor of Japan Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ、オウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 皇帝 (こうてい), 皇室 (こうしつ), 皇后 (こうごう)
"display Details Story Dictionary 呈 display Heisig's The trick to remembering this character lies in associating the key word with the line from the nursery rhyme about 4 and 20 blackbirds baked in a pie: ""Wasn't this a dainty dish to set before the king?"" If we think of display in terms of that famous line, and the king with his head thrown back and his mouth wide open as 4 and 20 blackbirds fly in one after the other, we shall have satisfied both the elements and their position. Koohii #1 The mouth of the king is displaying his bling. Koohii #2 What a pathetic display! The king is sprawled on his throne, head back and mouth wide open, fast asleep. We should never have let him drink so much at that banquet last night. Primitives display, mouth, king, jewel, ball 進呈(しんてい): presentation Kunyomi: Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"display 呈 画数7 280 Details Story Dictionary 呈 display Heisig's The trick to remembering this character lies in associating the key word with the line from the nursery rhyme about 4 and 20 blackbirds baked in a pie: ""Wasn't this a dainty dish to set before the king?"" If we think of display in terms of that famous line, and the king with his head thrown back and his mouth wide open as 4 and 20 blackbirds fly in one after the other, we shall have satisfied both the elements and their position. Koohii #1 The mouth of the king is displaying his bling. Koohii #2 What a pathetic display! The king is sprawled on his throne, head back and mouth wide open, fast asleep. We should never have let him drink so much at that banquet last night. Primitives display, mouth, king, jewel, ball 進呈(しんてい): presentation Kunyomi: Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"whole Details Story Dictionary 全 whole Heisig's Wholeness suggests physical and spiritual health, ""having your act together."" The kanji-image for wholeness depicts being ""king under your own umbrella,"" that is, giving order to your own life. I know it sounds terribly abstract, but what could be more abstract than the word whole? Koohii #1 The fat king hogs the whole space under his umbrella. (tweaked version of radical tyro´s story. ""fat"" makes a more vivid image for me.). Koohii #2 The king takes up the whole space under his umbrella. Primitives whole, umbrella, king, jewel, ball 健全(けんぜん): health, soundness, wholesome 全快(ぜんかい): complete recovery of health 全盛(ぜんせい): height of prosperity 全然(ぜんぜん): wholly, entirely, completely, not at all (with neg. verb) 全滅(ぜんめつ): annihilation 完全(かんぜん): perfection, completeness 全て(すべて): all, the whole, entirely, in general, wholly 全員(ぜんいん): all members (unanimity), all hands, the whole crew 全(ぜん): all, whole, entire, complete, overall, pan- 全国(ぜんこく): nation-wide, whole country, national 全集(ぜんしゅう): complete works 全身(ぜんしん): the whole body, full-length (portrait) 全体(ぜんたい): whole, entirety, whatever (is the matter) 全般(ぜんぱん): whole, universal, wholly, general 全く(まったく): really, truly, entirely, completely, wholly, perfectly, indeed 安全(あんぜん): safety 全部(ぜんぶ): all, entire, whole, altogether Kunyomi: まった.く、すべ.て Onyomi: ゼン Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 全く (まった.く)"	"whole 全 画数6 281 Details Story Dictionary 全 whole Heisig's Wholeness suggests physical and spiritual health, ""having your act together."" The kanji-image for wholeness depicts being ""king under your own umbrella,"" that is, giving order to your own life. I know it sounds terribly abstract, but what could be more abstract than the word whole? Koohii #1 The fat king hogs the whole space under his umbrella. (tweaked version of radical tyro´s story. ""fat"" makes a more vivid image for me.). Koohii #2 The king takes up the whole space under his umbrella. Primitives whole, umbrella, king, jewel, ball 健全(けんぜん): health, soundness, wholesome 全快(ぜんかい): complete recovery of health 全盛(ぜんせい): height of prosperity 全然(ぜんぜん): wholly, entirely, completely, not at all (with neg. verb) 全滅(ぜんめつ): annihilation 完全(かんぜん): perfection, completeness 全て(すべて): all, the whole, entirely, in general, wholly 全員(ぜんいん): all members (unanimity), all hands, the whole crew 全(ぜん): all, whole, entire, complete, overall, pan- 全国(ぜんこく): nation-wide, whole country, national 全集(ぜんしゅう): complete works 全身(ぜんしん): the whole body, full-length (portrait) 全体(ぜんたい): whole, entirety, whatever (is the matter) 全般(ぜんぱん): whole, universal, wholly, general 全く(まったく): really, truly, entirely, completely, wholly, perfectly, indeed 安全(あんぜん): safety 全部(ぜんぶ): all, entire, whole, altogether Kunyomi: まった.く、すべ.て Onyomi: ゼン Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 全く (まった.く)"
"plug Details Story Dictionary 栓 plug Heisig's Here we think of plug in the sense of a cork or stopper used to seal the mouth of a bottle, water faucet, or something with liquid running out of it. Forgetting the abstract picture of the former frame, let us work with all the primitive units: tree . . . umbrella . . . ball. Imagine a tree with a faucet in the side out of which tennis balls are flowing, bouncing all over the ground by the hundreds. You fight your way up to it and shove your giant beach umbrella into the tree to plug it up. Koohii #1 The fat king under his umbrella offers useless advice to the workers. ""You´ll need the whole tree to plug that gap"". Imagine a grossly fat, incompetent king under a parasol giving annoying advice to sweating workers who know what they´re doing. (I always have trouble bringing up the ""whole"" primitive. This story reminds me how to build that part. ). Koohii #2 To plug the hole, you need to use a whole piece of wood - like a cork or something. Primitives plug, tree, wood, whole, umbrella, king, jewel, ball 栓(せん): stopper, cork Kunyomi: Onyomi: セン Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"plug 栓 画数10 282 Details Story Dictionary 栓 plug Heisig's Here we think of plug in the sense of a cork or stopper used to seal the mouth of a bottle, water faucet, or something with liquid running out of it. Forgetting the abstract picture of the former frame, let us work with all the primitive units: tree . . . umbrella . . . ball. Imagine a tree with a faucet in the side out of which tennis balls are flowing, bouncing all over the ground by the hundreds. You fight your way up to it and shove your giant beach umbrella into the tree to plug it up. Koohii #1 The fat king under his umbrella offers useless advice to the workers. ""You´ll need the whole tree to plug that gap"". Imagine a grossly fat, incompetent king under a parasol giving annoying advice to sweating workers who know what they´re doing. (I always have trouble bringing up the ""whole"" primitive. This story reminds me how to build that part. ). Koohii #2 To plug the hole, you need to use a whole piece of wood - like a cork or something. Primitives plug, tree, wood, whole, umbrella, king, jewel, ball 栓(せん): stopper, cork Kunyomi: Onyomi: セン Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
logic Details Story Dictionary 理 logic Heisig's We first referred to this character back in frame 185, to which you might want to return to have a peek. The image of logic we are given is something like a central jewel in a computer, like the jewels in old clocks that keep them running smoothly. Try to picture yourself making your way through all the rams and roms and approaching this shining jewel, a chorus of voice sand a blast of trumpets in the background heralding the great seat of all-knowing logic. Koohii #1 The king of LOGIC is the computer. Koohii #2 Computers are ruled by logic (it is the king of computers). Primitives logic, king, jewel, ball, computer 義理(ぎり): duty, sense of duty, honor, decency, courtesy, debt of gratitude, social obligation 真理(しんり): truth 推理(すいり): reasoning, inference, mystery or detective genre (movie novel etc.) 生理(せいり): physiology, menses 調理(ちょうり): cooking 理屈(りくつ): theory, reason 理性(りせい): reason, sense 理論(りろん): theory 論理(ろんり): logic 管理(かんり): control, management (e.g. of a business) 原理(げんり): principle, theory, fundamental truth 合理(ごうり): rational 修理(しゅうり): repairing, mending 処理(しょり): processing, dealing with, treatment, disposition, disposal 心理(しんり): mentality 整理(せいり): sorting, arrangement, adjustment, regulation 総理大臣(そうりだいじん): Prime Minister 代理(だいり): representation, agency, proxy, deputy, agent, attorney, substitute, alternate, acting (principal, etc.) 物理(ぶつり): physics 理科(りか): science 理解(りかい): understanding, comprehension 理想(りそう): ideal 地理(ちり): geography, geographical features 無理(むり): compulsion 理由(りゆう): reason 料理(りょうり): cooking, cookery, cuisine Kunyomi: ことわり Onyomi: リ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:	logic 理 画数11 283 Details Story Dictionary 理 logic Heisig's We first referred to this character back in frame 185, to which you might want to return to have a peek. The image of logic we are given is something like a central jewel in a computer, like the jewels in old clocks that keep them running smoothly. Try to picture yourself making your way through all the rams and roms and approaching this shining jewel, a chorus of voice sand a blast of trumpets in the background heralding the great seat of all-knowing logic. Koohii #1 The king of LOGIC is the computer. Koohii #2 Computers are ruled by logic (it is the king of computers). Primitives logic, king, jewel, ball, computer 義理(ぎり): duty, sense of duty, honor, decency, courtesy, debt of gratitude, social obligation 真理(しんり): truth 推理(すいり): reasoning, inference, mystery or detective genre (movie novel etc.) 生理(せいり): physiology, menses 調理(ちょうり): cooking 理屈(りくつ): theory, reason 理性(りせい): reason, sense 理論(りろん): theory 論理(ろんり): logic 管理(かんり): control, management (e.g. of a business) 原理(げんり): principle, theory, fundamental truth 合理(ごうり): rational 修理(しゅうり): repairing, mending 処理(しょり): processing, dealing with, treatment, disposition, disposal 心理(しんり): mentality 整理(せいり): sorting, arrangement, adjustment, regulation 総理大臣(そうりだいじん): Prime Minister 代理(だいり): representation, agency, proxy, deputy, agent, attorney, substitute, alternate, acting (principal, etc.) 物理(ぶつり): physics 理科(りか): science 理解(りかい): understanding, comprehension 理想(りそう): ideal 地理(ちり): geography, geographical features 無理(むり): compulsion 理由(りゆう): reason 料理(りょうり): cooking, cookery, cuisine Kunyomi: ことわり Onyomi: リ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:
"lord Details Story Dictionary 主 lord Heisig's A man's home is his castle, goes the proverb from an age where it was the male who was lord of the household. Fundamentally, it means only that every one of us is a bit (or drop) of a king in our own environment. As for the positioning of the elements, if you take care to ""read off"" the primitives in this way, you won't end up putting the drop down below, where it turns the kanji into a jewel. * As a primitive element, we set the key word aside entirely and take it as a pictograph of a solid brass candlestick (with the drop representing the flame at the top). Koohii #1 A lord is a little drop down from King in hierarchy. Koohii #2 Although this kanji´s meaning hasn´t caused me much trouble, I´ve had problems remembering the direction of the drop above king, since drops at tops of kanji often seem to appear in different directions. To remember this one, I think of the placement of the drop in jewel (#256). Both of them use the king primitive and include a short drop stroke going from the top left to bottom right. Primitives lord, drop, king, jewel, ball 家主(いえぬし): landlord 君主(くんしゅ): ruler, monarch 自主(じしゅ): independence, autonomy 地主(じぬし): landlord 主演(しゅえん): starring, playing the leading part 主観(しゅかん): subjectivity, subject, ego 主義(しゅぎ): doctrine, rule, principle 主権(しゅけん): sovereignty, supremacy, dominion 主催(しゅさい): organization, sponsorship 主食(しゅしょく): staple food 主人公(しゅじんこう): protagonist, main character, hero(ine) (of a story), head of household 主体(しゅたい): subject, main constituent 主題(しゅだい): subject, theme, motif 主導(しゅどう): main leadership 主任(しゅにん): person in charge, responsible official 民主(みんしゅ): democratic, the head of the nation 主に(おもに): mainly, primarily 主語(しゅご): (grammar) subject 主張(しゅちょう): claim, request, insistence, assertion, advocacy, emphasis, contention, opinion, tenet 主婦(しゅふ): housewife, mistress 主役(しゅやく): leading part, leading actor or actress 主要(しゅよう): chief, main, principal, major 家主(やぬし): landlord 御主人(ごしゅじん): (polite) your husband, her husband Kunyomi: ぬし、おも、あるじ Onyomi: シュ、ス、シュウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 主人 (しゅじん), 主権 (しゅけん), 施主 (せしゅ), 主 (おも), 主 (ぬし)"	"lord 主 画数5 284 Details Story Dictionary 主 lord Heisig's A man's home is his castle, goes the proverb from an age where it was the male who was lord of the household. Fundamentally, it means only that every one of us is a bit (or drop) of a king in our own environment. As for the positioning of the elements, if you take care to ""read off"" the primitives in this way, you won't end up putting the drop down below, where it turns the kanji into a jewel. * As a primitive element, we set the key word aside entirely and take it as a pictograph of a solid brass candlestick (with the drop representing the flame at the top). Koohii #1 A lord is a little drop down from King in hierarchy. Koohii #2 Although this kanji´s meaning hasn´t caused me much trouble, I´ve had problems remembering the direction of the drop above king, since drops at tops of kanji often seem to appear in different directions. To remember this one, I think of the placement of the drop in jewel (#256). Both of them use the king primitive and include a short drop stroke going from the top left to bottom right. Primitives lord, drop, king, jewel, ball 家主(いえぬし): landlord 君主(くんしゅ): ruler, monarch 自主(じしゅ): independence, autonomy 地主(じぬし): landlord 主演(しゅえん): starring, playing the leading part 主観(しゅかん): subjectivity, subject, ego 主義(しゅぎ): doctrine, rule, principle 主権(しゅけん): sovereignty, supremacy, dominion 主催(しゅさい): organization, sponsorship 主食(しゅしょく): staple food 主人公(しゅじんこう): protagonist, main character, hero(ine) (of a story), head of household 主体(しゅたい): subject, main constituent 主題(しゅだい): subject, theme, motif 主導(しゅどう): main leadership 主任(しゅにん): person in charge, responsible official 民主(みんしゅ): democratic, the head of the nation 主に(おもに): mainly, primarily 主語(しゅご): (grammar) subject 主張(しゅちょう): claim, request, insistence, assertion, advocacy, emphasis, contention, opinion, tenet 主婦(しゅふ): housewife, mistress 主役(しゅやく): leading part, leading actor or actress 主要(しゅよう): chief, main, principal, major 家主(やぬし): landlord 御主人(ごしゅじん): (polite) your husband, her husband Kunyomi: ぬし、おも、あるじ Onyomi: シュ、ス、シュウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 主人 (しゅじん), 主権 (しゅけん), 施主 (せしゅ), 主 (おも), 主 (ぬし)"
pour Details Story Dictionary 注 pour My Story If there is water next to the lord/master {主}, then dont pour him another one Koohii #1 Visualize an idiot trying to figure out how to extinguish a candle. He sees a glass of WATER and decides to pour it onto the CANDLESTICK to put it out. Water spills everywhere. Koohii #2 Like water the hot wax poured down the side of the candlestick. Primitives pour, water, water droplets, water pistol, candlestick, lord, drop, king, jewel, ball 注す(さす): pour or serve (drinks) 注文(ちゅうもん): order, request 注ぐ(そそぐ): pour (into), fill, irrigate, pay, feed (a fire) 注(ちゅう): annotation, explanatory note 注目(ちゅうもく): notice, attention, observation 注ぐ(つぐ): pour (in), fill (with) 注意(ちゅうい): advise, pay attention 注射(ちゅうしゃ): inject Kunyomi: そそ.ぐ、さ.す、つ.ぐ Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 注ぐ (そそ.ぐ)	pour 注 画数8 285 Details Story Dictionary 注 pour My Story If there is water next to the lord/master {主}, then dont pour him another one Koohii #1 Visualize an idiot trying to figure out how to extinguish a candle. He sees a glass of WATER and decides to pour it onto the CANDLESTICK to put it out. Water spills everywhere. Koohii #2 Like water the hot wax poured down the side of the candlestick. Primitives pour, water, water droplets, water pistol, candlestick, lord, drop, king, jewel, ball 注す(さす): pour or serve (drinks) 注文(ちゅうもん): order, request 注ぐ(そそぐ): pour (into), fill, irrigate, pay, feed (a fire) 注(ちゅう): annotation, explanatory note 注目(ちゅうもく): notice, attention, observation 注ぐ(つぐ): pour (in), fill (with) 注意(ちゅうい): advise, pay attention 注射(ちゅうしゃ): inject Kunyomi: そそ.ぐ、さ.す、つ.ぐ Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 注ぐ (そそ.ぐ)
"pillar Details Story Dictionary 柱 pillar Heisig's The pillar referred to here is the wooden beam that stands at the entrance to a traditional Japanese house. Carve it in imagination into the shape of a gigantic candlestick and your work is done. Koohii #1 The main pillar in a house should be made of the biggest and strongest tree - the lord of the trees. Koohii #2 Why has this pillar been carved in the shape of a giant penis?! ""You said that ´it should be made of wood´, My Lord."". Primitives pillar, tree, wood, candlestick, lord, drop, king, jewel, ball 柱(はしら): pillar, post 電柱(でんちゅう): telephone pole, telegraph pole, lightpole Kunyomi: はしら Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 柱 (はしら)"	"pillar 柱 画数9 286 Details Story Dictionary 柱 pillar Heisig's The pillar referred to here is the wooden beam that stands at the entrance to a traditional Japanese house. Carve it in imagination into the shape of a gigantic candlestick and your work is done. Koohii #1 The main pillar in a house should be made of the biggest and strongest tree - the lord of the trees. Koohii #2 Why has this pillar been carved in the shape of a giant penis?! ""You said that ´it should be made of wood´, My Lord."". Primitives pillar, tree, wood, candlestick, lord, drop, king, jewel, ball 柱(はしら): pillar, post 電柱(でんちゅう): telephone pole, telegraph pole, lightpole Kunyomi: はしら Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 柱 (はしら)"
"gold Details Story Dictionary 金 gold Heisig's If this were not one of the most common characters you will ever have to write, I would apologize for having to give the explanation that follows. Anyway, we want to depict bars of gold bullion with an umbrella overhead to shade them from the heat (and perhaps to hide them as well). The bullion is made by melting down all the scepters of the kingdom, drop by drop, and shaping them into bars. * As a primitive, it means not only gold but any metal at all. Koohii #1 The fat king taking up the whole space under the umbrella actually isn´t fat - he just has two big gold bars hidden under his clothes. Koohii #2 Under the umbrella´s shade, the king sang, "" Drop it to the left, drop it to the right, give me all the GOLD in sight!"". Primitives gold, metal, gold, umbrella, drop, king, jewel, ball, drop2 黄金(おうごん): gold 金槌(かなづち): (iron) hammer, punishment 金庫(かねぐら): safe, vault, treasury, provider of funds 金持ち(かねもち): rich man 基金(ききん): fund, foundation 金曜(きんよう): Friday 残金(ざんきん): remaining money 資金(しきん): funds, capital 送金(そうきん): remittance, sending money 大金(たいきん): great cost 賃金(ちんぎん): wages 募金(ぼきん): fund-raising, collection of funds 預金(よきん): deposit, bank account 金(かね): money, metal 金融(きんゆう): monetary circulation, credit situation 金(きん): metal, money, gold 金額(きんがく): amount of money 金魚(きんぎょ): goldfish 金庫(きんこ): safe, vault, treasury, provider of funds 金銭(きんせん): money, cash 金属(きんぞく): metal 現金(げんきん): cash, ready money, mercenary, self-interested 借金(しゃっきん): debt, loan, liabilities 集金(しゅうきん): money collection 奨学金(しょうがくきん): scholarship 賞金(しょうきん): prize, monetary award 税金(ぜいきん): tax, duty 代金(だいきん): price, payment, cost, charge, the money, the bill 貯金(ちょきん): (bank) savings 針金(はりがね): wire 料金(りょうきん): fee, charge, fare お金(おかね): money 金曜日(きんようび): Friday Kunyomi: かね、かな-、-がね Onyomi: キン、コン、ゴン Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 金属 (きんぞく), 金銭 (きんせん), 純金 (じゅんきん), 金 (かね)"	"gold 金 画数8 287 Details Story Dictionary 金 gold Heisig's If this were not one of the most common characters you will ever have to write, I would apologize for having to give the explanation that follows. Anyway, we want to depict bars of gold bullion with an umbrella overhead to shade them from the heat (and perhaps to hide them as well). The bullion is made by melting down all the scepters of the kingdom, drop by drop, and shaping them into bars. * As a primitive, it means not only gold but any metal at all. Koohii #1 The fat king taking up the whole space under the umbrella actually isn´t fat - he just has two big gold bars hidden under his clothes. Koohii #2 Under the umbrella´s shade, the king sang, "" Drop it to the left, drop it to the right, give me all the GOLD in sight!"". Primitives gold, metal, gold, umbrella, drop, king, jewel, ball, drop2 黄金(おうごん): gold 金槌(かなづち): (iron) hammer, punishment 金庫(かねぐら): safe, vault, treasury, provider of funds 金持ち(かねもち): rich man 基金(ききん): fund, foundation 金曜(きんよう): Friday 残金(ざんきん): remaining money 資金(しきん): funds, capital 送金(そうきん): remittance, sending money 大金(たいきん): great cost 賃金(ちんぎん): wages 募金(ぼきん): fund-raising, collection of funds 預金(よきん): deposit, bank account 金(かね): money, metal 金融(きんゆう): monetary circulation, credit situation 金(きん): metal, money, gold 金額(きんがく): amount of money 金魚(きんぎょ): goldfish 金庫(きんこ): safe, vault, treasury, provider of funds 金銭(きんせん): money, cash 金属(きんぞく): metal 現金(げんきん): cash, ready money, mercenary, self-interested 借金(しゃっきん): debt, loan, liabilities 集金(しゅうきん): money collection 奨学金(しょうがくきん): scholarship 賞金(しょうきん): prize, monetary award 税金(ぜいきん): tax, duty 代金(だいきん): price, payment, cost, charge, the money, the bill 貯金(ちょきん): (bank) savings 針金(はりがね): wire 料金(りょうきん): fee, charge, fare お金(おかね): money 金曜日(きんようび): Friday Kunyomi: かね、かな-、-がね Onyomi: キン、コン、ゴン Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 金属 (きんぞく), 金銭 (きんせん), 純金 (じゅんきん), 金 (かね)"
"pig iron Details Story Dictionary 銑 pig iron Heisig's Pig iron refers to iron in the crude form in which it emerges from the smelting furnaces. Of all the various forms metal can take, this one shows us metal before it has been refined. Imagine two photographs labeled ""before"" and ""after"" to show the process. Koohii #1 Pig iron is basic/crude metal, that is, before it has been processed. Koohii #2 Pig-iron is crude metal (金) before (先) it is refined. If you have trouble with this character, envision a big minotaur (cow head with human legs) as a blacksmith, smelting metals and making swords for war. Primitives pig-iron, metal, gold, before, cow, human legs Kunyomi: Onyomi: セン Lesson: 12 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"pig iron 銑 画数14 288 Details Story Dictionary 銑 pig iron Heisig's Pig iron refers to iron in the crude form in which it emerges from the smelting furnaces. Of all the various forms metal can take, this one shows us metal before it has been refined. Imagine two photographs labeled ""before"" and ""after"" to show the process. Koohii #1 Pig iron is basic/crude metal, that is, before it has been processed. Koohii #2 Pig-iron is crude metal (金) before (先) it is refined. If you have trouble with this character, envision a big minotaur (cow head with human legs) as a blacksmith, smelting metals and making swords for war. Primitives pig-iron, metal, gold, before, cow, human legs Kunyomi: Onyomi: セン Lesson: 12 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
bowl Details Story Dictionary 鉢 bowl Heisig's Let bowl suggest a large and heavy golden bowl into which you are throwing all the books you own to mash them into pulp, for some outrageous reason you will have to think up yourself. Koohii #1 This is the BOWL of an alchemist: see how he mixes metals in his bowl, as he follows the instructions from his book? Koohii #2 If I was begging with a BOWL, I would want GOLD and BOOKS. Primitives bowl, metal, gold, origin, book, tree, wood, one 鉢(はち): bowl, pot, basin Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハチ、ハツ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鉢 (はち), 植木鉢 (うえきばち)	bowl 鉢 画数13 289 Details Story Dictionary 鉢 bowl Heisig's Let bowl suggest a large and heavy golden bowl into which you are throwing all the books you own to mash them into pulp, for some outrageous reason you will have to think up yourself. Koohii #1 This is the BOWL of an alchemist: see how he mixes metals in his bowl, as he follows the instructions from his book? Koohii #2 If I was begging with a BOWL, I would want GOLD and BOOKS. Primitives bowl, metal, gold, origin, book, tree, wood, one 鉢(はち): bowl, pot, basin Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハチ、ハツ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鉢 (はち), 植木鉢 (うえきばち)
"copper Details Story Dictionary 銅 copper Heisig's Picture an order of monks serving as chaplains for the police force. Their special habit, made of protective metal, is distinguished by a row of copper buttons just like the ""cops"" they serve. Koohii #1 I can´t believe no one has used this one yet: Copper is metal which looks almost the same as gold. Really, look it up on Wikipedia, it´s yellow and it´s shiny (atleast in some compounds)! Koohii #2 Copper is an excellent conductor. In other words, it´s a metal for which the voltage is the same everywhere. That´s why it´s used for wires. Primitives copper, metal, gold, same, monks, hood, one, mouth 銅(あかがね): copper 銅(どう): copper Kunyomi: あかがね Onyomi: ドウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"copper 銅 画数14 290 Details Story Dictionary 銅 copper Heisig's Picture an order of monks serving as chaplains for the police force. Their special habit, made of protective metal, is distinguished by a row of copper buttons just like the ""cops"" they serve. Koohii #1 I can´t believe no one has used this one yet: Copper is metal which looks almost the same as gold. Really, look it up on Wikipedia, it´s yellow and it´s shiny (atleast in some compounds)! Koohii #2 Copper is an excellent conductor. In other words, it´s a metal for which the voltage is the same everywhere. That´s why it´s used for wires. Primitives copper, metal, gold, same, monks, hood, one, mouth 銅(あかがね): copper 銅(どう): copper Kunyomi: あかがね Onyomi: ドウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
angling Details Story Dictionary 釣 angling Heisig's The character we learned for fishing (Frame 184) refers to the professional, net-casting industry, while the angling of this character refers to the sport. The odd thing is that your angling rod is a golden ladle which you are using to scoop goldfish out of a river. Koohii #1 All the people that go to the Japanese festivals to catch fish part time are suckers. Me? I´m a pro. I bring a big-ass golden ladle. I´m a true ANGLING professional. Koohii #2 Imagine an effeminate Roman 2000 years ago angling with a golden ladle instead of a rod because it matches his eyes and hair better and it impresses the boys. (Why a Roman? Because ´angling´ is just the roman-derived way to say ´fishing´ - use this to distinguish fishing from angling.). Primitives angling, metal, gold, ladle, bound up, drop 釣り(つり): fishing, angling 釣鐘(つりがね): hanging bell 釣(つり): change (e.g. for a dollar) 釣(つり): fishing 釣り合う(つりあう): balance, be in harmony, suit 釣る(つる): to fish Kunyomi: つ.る、つ.り、つ.り- Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 釣る (つ.る)	angling 釣 画数11 291 Details Story Dictionary 釣 angling Heisig's The character we learned for fishing (Frame 184) refers to the professional, net-casting industry, while the angling of this character refers to the sport. The odd thing is that your angling rod is a golden ladle which you are using to scoop goldfish out of a river. Koohii #1 All the people that go to the Japanese festivals to catch fish part time are suckers. Me? I´m a pro. I bring a big-ass golden ladle. I´m a true ANGLING professional. Koohii #2 Imagine an effeminate Roman 2000 years ago angling with a golden ladle instead of a rod because it matches his eyes and hair better and it impresses the boys. (Why a Roman? Because ´angling´ is just the roman-derived way to say ´fishing´ - use this to distinguish fishing from angling.). Primitives angling, metal, gold, ladle, bound up, drop 釣り(つり): fishing, angling 釣鐘(つりがね): hanging bell 釣(つり): change (e.g. for a dollar) 釣(つり): fishing 釣り合う(つりあう): balance, be in harmony, suit 釣る(つる): to fish Kunyomi: つ.る、つ.り、つ.り- Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 釣る (つ.る)
needle Details Story Dictionary 針 needle My Story Needles if made from *gold* are *10* times stronger. Koohii #1 Remember the story of the needle in the haystack. Why would someone even look for a needle if it wasn´t a GOLD NEEDLE? Koohii #2 A golden needle is worth ten times more than an ordinary needle. Primitives needle, metal, gold, ten, needle 針路(しんろ): course, direction, compass bearing 針(はり): needle, fish hook, pointer, hand (clock) 針金(はりがね): wire 方針(ほうしん): objective, plan, policy Kunyomi: はり Onyomi: シン Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 針 (はり)	needle 針 画数10 292 Details Story Dictionary 針 needle My Story Needles if made from *gold* are *10* times stronger. Koohii #1 Remember the story of the needle in the haystack. Why would someone even look for a needle if it wasn´t a GOLD NEEDLE? Koohii #2 A golden needle is worth ten times more than an ordinary needle. Primitives needle, metal, gold, ten, needle 針路(しんろ): course, direction, compass bearing 針(はり): needle, fish hook, pointer, hand (clock) 針金(はりがね): wire 方針(ほうしん): objective, plan, policy Kunyomi: はり Onyomi: シン Lesson: 12 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 針 (はり)
inscription Details Story Dictionary 銘 inscription Heisig's Take inscription in the sense of the name you ask the jeweler to carve on a gold bracelet or inside a gold ring to identify its owner or communicate some sentimental message. It will help if you can recall the first time you had this done and the feelings you had at the time. Koohii #1 A piece of metal with a name on it. Well, this is basically the definition of inscription. Koohii #2 I imagine ancient Egyptian inscriptions: Pharaohs´ names written in gold. Primitives inscription, metal, gold, name, evening, mouth 銘々(めいめい): each, individual Kunyomi: Onyomi: メイ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	inscription 銘 画数14 293 Details Story Dictionary 銘 inscription Heisig's Take inscription in the sense of the name you ask the jeweler to carve on a gold bracelet or inside a gold ring to identify its owner or communicate some sentimental message. It will help if you can recall the first time you had this done and the feelings you had at the time. Koohii #1 A piece of metal with a name on it. Well, this is basically the definition of inscription. Koohii #2 I imagine ancient Egyptian inscriptions: Pharaohs´ names written in gold. Primitives inscription, metal, gold, name, evening, mouth 銘々(めいめい): each, individual Kunyomi: Onyomi: メイ Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
tranquillize Details Story Dictionary 鎮 tranquillize Heisig's The first lie-detector machines of the twentieth century worked by wiring pieces of metal to the body to measure the amount of sweat produced when questions were asked. It was discovered that nervousness produced more sweat, indicating subconscious reactions when the truth was getting too close for comfort. Nowadays, people can take drugs that tranquillize them in such a way as to neutralize the effect of the device, which is why other means have had to be developed. Koohii #1 Tranquilize - using a metal syringe to get the truth. Koohii #2 Enough gold can tranquilize the truth in anyone. Primitives tranquilize, metal, gold, true, truth, ten, needle, eye, tool, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: しず.める、しず.まる、おさえ Onyomi: チン Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鎮まる (しず.まる), 鎮める (しず.める)	tranquillize 鎮 画数18 294 Details Story Dictionary 鎮 tranquillize Heisig's The first lie-detector machines of the twentieth century worked by wiring pieces of metal to the body to measure the amount of sweat produced when questions were asked. It was discovered that nervousness produced more sweat, indicating subconscious reactions when the truth was getting too close for comfort. Nowadays, people can take drugs that tranquillize them in such a way as to neutralize the effect of the device, which is why other means have had to be developed. Koohii #1 Tranquilize - using a metal syringe to get the truth. Koohii #2 Enough gold can tranquilize the truth in anyone. Primitives tranquilize, metal, gold, true, truth, ten, needle, eye, tool, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: しず.める、しず.まる、おさえ Onyomi: チン Lesson: 12 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鎮まる (しず.まる), 鎮める (しず.める)
"road-way Details Story Dictionary 道 road-way Heisig's The key word carries both the sense of a road for transit and a way or method of doing something, but the former is better for forming an image. The primitives read: the neck of a road. Think of a crowded road-way where traffic has come to a standstill - what we commonly refer to as a ""bottleneck."" Koohii #1 When we go out on the ROAD-WAY, we often risk our own necks (that´s why I take the train! ). Koohii #2 Watch as a villianous fiend stretches a poor damsel´s neck over a dusty road. Her ear pressed to the ground, she can hear the rumble of a carriage thundering down the roadway. Will the hero save her in time? Or will her neck be ground into the road, spilling it´s precious contents into the dust? Primitives road-way, neck, horns, drop, eye, road 街道(かいどう): highway 軌道(きどう): orbit, railroad track 使い道(つかいみち): use 道場(どうじょう): dojo, hall used for martial arts training, mandala 報道(ほうどう): information, report 片道(かたみち): one-way (trip) 書道(しょどう): calligraphy 赤道(せきどう): equator 鉄道(てつどう): railroad 道徳(どうとく): morals 道路(どうろ): road, highway 歩道(ほどう): footpath, walkway, sidewalk 回り道(まわりみち): detour, diversion 道順(みちじゅん): itinerary, route 柔道(じゅうどう): judo 水道(すいどう): water works 道具(どうぐ): tool 道(みち): road, street, way, method Kunyomi: みち Onyomi: ドウ、トウ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 道路 (どうろ), 道徳 (どうとく), 報道 (ほうどう), 道 (みち)"	"road-way 道 画数12 295 Details Story Dictionary 道 road-way Heisig's The key word carries both the sense of a road for transit and a way or method of doing something, but the former is better for forming an image. The primitives read: the neck of a road. Think of a crowded road-way where traffic has come to a standstill - what we commonly refer to as a ""bottleneck."" Koohii #1 When we go out on the ROAD-WAY, we often risk our own necks (that´s why I take the train! ). Koohii #2 Watch as a villianous fiend stretches a poor damsel´s neck over a dusty road. Her ear pressed to the ground, she can hear the rumble of a carriage thundering down the roadway. Will the hero save her in time? Or will her neck be ground into the road, spilling it´s precious contents into the dust? Primitives road-way, neck, horns, drop, eye, road 街道(かいどう): highway 軌道(きどう): orbit, railroad track 使い道(つかいみち): use 道場(どうじょう): dojo, hall used for martial arts training, mandala 報道(ほうどう): information, report 片道(かたみち): one-way (trip) 書道(しょどう): calligraphy 赤道(せきどう): equator 鉄道(てつどう): railroad 道徳(どうとく): morals 道路(どうろ): road, highway 歩道(ほどう): footpath, walkway, sidewalk 回り道(まわりみち): detour, diversion 道順(みちじゅん): itinerary, route 柔道(じゅうどう): judo 水道(すいどう): water works 道具(どうぐ): tool 道(みち): road, street, way, method Kunyomi: みち Onyomi: ドウ、トウ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 道路 (どうろ), 道徳 (どうとく), 報道 (ほうどう), 道 (みち)"
"guidance Details Story Dictionary 導 guidance Heisig's When we accept someone's guidance, we permit ourselves to be glued to a certain road or way of doing something, and try to ""stick"" to it. Koohii #1 For guidance on the road-way, glue a GPS unit to your car. Koohii #2 Good guidance will help you stay glued to the right path. Primitives guidance, neck, horns, drop, eye, road, glue 主導(しゅどう): main leadership 導入(どうにゅう): introduction, bringing in, leading in 導く(みちびく): to be guided, to be shown 誘導(ゆうどう): guidance, leading, induction, introduction, incitement, inducement 指導(しどう): leadership, guidance, coaching Kunyomi: みちび.く Onyomi: ドウ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 導く (みちび.く)"	"guidance 導 画数15 296 Details Story Dictionary 導 guidance Heisig's When we accept someone's guidance, we permit ourselves to be glued to a certain road or way of doing something, and try to ""stick"" to it. Koohii #1 For guidance on the road-way, glue a GPS unit to your car. Koohii #2 Good guidance will help you stay glued to the right path. Primitives guidance, neck, horns, drop, eye, road, glue 主導(しゅどう): main leadership 導入(どうにゅう): introduction, bringing in, leading in 導く(みちびく): to be guided, to be shown 誘導(ゆうどう): guidance, leading, induction, introduction, incitement, inducement 指導(しどう): leadership, guidance, coaching Kunyomi: みちび.く Onyomi: ドウ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 導く (みちび.く)"
"crossing Details Story Dictionary 辻 crossing Heisig's Take the first two strokes in the sense we gave them back in frame 10, as the pictograph of a cross, and set it on a road to create a ""crossing."" Koohii #1 Cross-road. Koohii #2 This kanji appears in the remarkable compound, 辻斬り 【つじぎり】 (n): killing a passerby in order to test a new sword. Imagine a cross by the road, at a busy crossing, marking the spot of the unfortunate passerby´s death. Primitives crossing, cross, ten, needle, road 辻褄(つじつま): coherence, consistency Kunyomi: つじ Onyomi: Lesson: 13 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"crossing 辻 画数5 297 Details Story Dictionary 辻 crossing Heisig's Take the first two strokes in the sense we gave them back in frame 10, as the pictograph of a cross, and set it on a road to create a ""crossing."" Koohii #1 Cross-road. Koohii #2 This kanji appears in the remarkable compound, 辻斬り 【つじぎり】 (n): killing a passerby in order to test a new sword. Imagine a cross by the road, at a busy crossing, marking the spot of the unfortunate passerby´s death. Primitives crossing, cross, ten, needle, road 辻褄(つじつま): coherence, consistency Kunyomi: つじ Onyomi: Lesson: 13 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:"
"swift Details Story Dictionary 迅 swift Heisig's Here we see a crossing in the form of a barbed fishhook, suggesting a swifter alternate not only to the roundabouts used in Europe but also to the ""cloverleaf"" design used on superhighways in the United States. Koohii #1 The car went too swiftly through the crossing and was hooked by the cops. Koohii #2 In the Heisig version of Frogger, you can image ten giant fish hooks sweeping across the road, with our hapless hero ´froggy´ forced to make a swift crossing or end up as fish bait. Primitives swift, fishhook, cross, ten, needle, road 迅速(じんそく): quick, fast, rapid, swift, prompt Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジン Lesson: 13 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"swift 迅 画数6 298 Details Story Dictionary 迅 swift Heisig's Here we see a crossing in the form of a barbed fishhook, suggesting a swifter alternate not only to the roundabouts used in Europe but also to the ""cloverleaf"" design used on superhighways in the United States. Koohii #1 The car went too swiftly through the crossing and was hooked by the cops. Koohii #2 In the Heisig version of Frogger, you can image ten giant fish hooks sweeping across the road, with our hapless hero ´froggy´ forced to make a swift crossing or end up as fish bait. Primitives swift, fishhook, cross, ten, needle, road 迅速(じんそく): quick, fast, rapid, swift, prompt Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジン Lesson: 13 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
create Details Story Dictionary 造 create Heisig's Think of creating as making something out of nothing. Then recall how the way of revelation laid out in the Bible begins with the story of how God created the world out of a dark and chaotic nothingness. Koohii #1 A cow creates a road by eating all the grass on its path. Koohii #2 CREATION is the ROAD to REVELATION (if you´re feeling artsy) :). Primitives create, revelation, cow, mouth, road 偽造(ぎぞう): forgery, falsification, fabrication, counterfeiting 創造(そうぞう): creation 造り(つくり): make up, structure, physique 荷造り(にづくり): packing, baling, crating 改造(かいぞう): remodeling 構造(こうぞう): structure, construction 人造(じんぞう): man-made, synthetic, artificial 製造(せいぞう): manufacture, production 造船(ぞうせん): shipbuilding 造る(つくる): make, create, manufacture, draw up, write, compose, build, organize, establish Kunyomi: つく.る、つく.り、-づく.り Onyomi: ゾウ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 造る (つく.る)	create 造 画数10 299 Details Story Dictionary 造 create Heisig's Think of creating as making something out of nothing. Then recall how the way of revelation laid out in the Bible begins with the story of how God created the world out of a dark and chaotic nothingness. Koohii #1 A cow creates a road by eating all the grass on its path. Koohii #2 CREATION is the ROAD to REVELATION (if you´re feeling artsy) :). Primitives create, revelation, cow, mouth, road 偽造(ぎぞう): forgery, falsification, fabrication, counterfeiting 創造(そうぞう): creation 造り(つくり): make up, structure, physique 荷造り(にづくり): packing, baling, crating 改造(かいぞう): remodeling 構造(こうぞう): structure, construction 人造(じんぞう): man-made, synthetic, artificial 製造(せいぞう): manufacture, production 造船(ぞうせん): shipbuilding 造る(つくる): make, create, manufacture, draw up, write, compose, build, organize, establish Kunyomi: つく.る、つく.り、-づく.り Onyomi: ゾウ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 造る (つく.る)
urge Details Story Dictionary 迫 urge Heisig's To urge someone to do something, you make the way as appealing as possible, perhaps even whitewashing it a bit. Koohii #1 When you have the URGE to go to White Castle, you know it´s time to hit the road. Koohii #2 When you start down the road of cocaine, you´re sure to feel some pretty bad URGEs soon. Primitives urge, white, dove, road 圧迫(あっぱく): pressure, coercion, oppression 脅迫(きょうはく): threat, menace, coercion, terrorism 迫害(はくがい): persecution 迫る(せまる): draw near, press Kunyomi: せま.る Onyomi: ハク Lesson: 13 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 迫る (せま.る)	urge 迫 画数8 300 Details Story Dictionary 迫 urge Heisig's To urge someone to do something, you make the way as appealing as possible, perhaps even whitewashing it a bit. Koohii #1 When you have the URGE to go to White Castle, you know it´s time to hit the road. Koohii #2 When you start down the road of cocaine, you´re sure to feel some pretty bad URGEs soon. Primitives urge, white, dove, road 圧迫(あっぱく): pressure, coercion, oppression 脅迫(きょうはく): threat, menace, coercion, terrorism 迫害(はくがい): persecution 迫る(せまる): draw near, press Kunyomi: せま.る Onyomi: ハク Lesson: 13 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 迫る (せま.る)
escape Details Story Dictionary 逃 escape My Story A bad *omen* is a sign for you to start moving (*movement*) and to escape Koohii #1 I used my pants to make a rope, which I then used to escape from prison; hence the naked, hairy legs running along the road! Koohii #2 A turtle version of frogger dodging cars to escape to the other side of the road...　　　RTK2:　トウ　逃走　とうそう(escape)...　　　　　　　MIXED GROUP:　桃236　(ﾁｮｳ): 兆235　眺237　挑658　跳1284. Primitives escape, turtle, portent, road 逃走(とうそう): flight, desertion, escape 逃亡(とうぼう): escape 逃げ出す(にげだす): to run away, to escape from 逃す(のがす): to let loose, to set free, to let escape 逃れる(のがれる): to escape 見逃す(みのがす): to miss, to overlook, to leave at large 逃がす(にがす): let loose, set free, let escape 逃げる(にげる): run away Kunyomi: に.げる、に.がす、のが.す、のが.れる Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 逃がす (に.がす), 逃げる (に.げる), 逃す (のが.す), 逃れる (のが.れる)	escape 逃 画数9 301 Details Story Dictionary 逃 escape My Story A bad *omen* is a sign for you to start moving (*movement*) and to escape Koohii #1 I used my pants to make a rope, which I then used to escape from prison; hence the naked, hairy legs running along the road! Koohii #2 A turtle version of frogger dodging cars to escape to the other side of the road...　　　RTK2:　トウ　逃走　とうそう(escape)...　　　　　　　MIXED GROUP:　桃236　(ﾁｮｳ): 兆235　眺237　挑658　跳1284. Primitives escape, turtle, portent, road 逃走(とうそう): flight, desertion, escape 逃亡(とうぼう): escape 逃げ出す(にげだす): to run away, to escape from 逃す(のがす): to let loose, to set free, to let escape 逃れる(のがれる): to escape 見逃す(みのがす): to miss, to overlook, to leave at large 逃がす(にがす): let loose, set free, let escape 逃げる(にげる): run away Kunyomi: に.げる、に.がす、のが.す、のが.れる Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 逃がす (に.がす), 逃げる (に.げる), 逃す (のが.す), 逃れる (のが.れる)
"environs Details Story Dictionary 辺 environs Heisig's To keep the environs clean and safe, you could cement daggers in the road, blades pointed upwards, so that no polluting traffic could pass by. You could, if you were an ecologically-minded terrorist. Koohii #1 Caution: this kanji doesn´t mean environment; it means ""environs; boundary; border; vicinity"". To separate the environs, create the border by placing daggers on the road. Koohii #2 To protect the environs around their village, samurai would travel the roads with their swords. Primitives environs, dagger, sword, road 対辺(たいへん): (geometrical) opposite side 浜辺(はまべ): beach, foreshore 辺り(ほとり): (in the) neighbourhood, vicinity, nearby 辺り(あたり): neighbourhood, vicinity, nearby 周辺(しゅうへん): circumference, outskirts, environs, (computer) peripheral 辺(へん): side, part, area, vicinity Kunyomi: あた.り、ほと.り、-べ Onyomi: ヘン Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 辺境 (へんきょう), 周辺 (しゅうへん), その辺 (そのへん), 辺り (あた.り), 辺 (べ)"	"environs 辺 画数5 302 Details Story Dictionary 辺 environs Heisig's To keep the environs clean and safe, you could cement daggers in the road, blades pointed upwards, so that no polluting traffic could pass by. You could, if you were an ecologically-minded terrorist. Koohii #1 Caution: this kanji doesn´t mean environment; it means ""environs; boundary; border; vicinity"". To separate the environs, create the border by placing daggers on the road. Koohii #2 To protect the environs around their village, samurai would travel the roads with their swords. Primitives environs, dagger, sword, road 対辺(たいへん): (geometrical) opposite side 浜辺(はまべ): beach, foreshore 辺り(ほとり): (in the) neighbourhood, vicinity, nearby 辺り(あたり): neighbourhood, vicinity, nearby 周辺(しゅうへん): circumference, outskirts, environs, (computer) peripheral 辺(へん): side, part, area, vicinity Kunyomi: あた.り、ほと.り、-べ Onyomi: ヘン Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 辺境 (へんきょう), 周辺 (しゅうへん), その辺 (そのへん), 辺り (あた.り), 辺 (べ)"
patrol Details Story Dictionary 巡 patrol Heisig's A virtual flood of motorcycle police washing down a road is this kanji's image for a patrol. Koohii #1 The cops don´t PATROL anymore - they just flood the road. Koohii #2 The Venice cops patrol on river roads. Primitives patrol, deluge, stream, flood, road お巡りさん(おまわりさん): policeman (friendly term) 巡査(じゅんさ): police, policeman 巡る(めぐる): go around Kunyomi: めぐ.る、めぐ.り Onyomi: ジュン Lesson: 13 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 巡る (めぐ.る)	patrol 巡 画数6 303 Details Story Dictionary 巡 patrol Heisig's A virtual flood of motorcycle police washing down a road is this kanji's image for a patrol. Koohii #1 The cops don´t PATROL anymore - they just flood the road. Koohii #2 The Venice cops patrol on river roads. Primitives patrol, deluge, stream, flood, road お巡りさん(おまわりさん): policeman (friendly term) 巡査(じゅんさ): police, policeman 巡る(めぐる): go around Kunyomi: めぐ.る、めぐ.り Onyomi: ジュン Lesson: 13 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 巡る (めぐ.る)
"car Details Story Dictionary 車 car Heisig's You may keep the whole range of connotations for this keyword, car, provided it does not interfere with the pictograph. Look for the front and back wheels (the first and last horizontal strokes) and the seat in the carriage in the middle. As an exercise, try to isolate the primitives on your own and make a story out of them. * Car, cart, wagon, and vehicle may all be used as primitive meanings. Koohii #1 My car is so fast it can go through ten rice fields in ten minutes. Koohii #2 Rather than hobbling along with a walking stick to cross through a span, it´s much better to use a car. (Imagine an old man with a walking stick creeping along a span of road, and you, in a car, whizzing right by him. It´s funny ´cause it´s true.) Also, it´s important to include the word ""through,"" so you know the walking stick goes right THROUGH the span. Primitives car, sun, ten, needle 風車(かざぐるま): windmill, pinwheel 機関車(きかんしゃ): locomotive, engine 下車(げしゃ): alighting, getting off 車庫(しゃこ): garage 車掌(しゃしょう): (train) conductor 車輪(しゃりん): (car) wheel 乗車(じょうしゃ): taking a train 駐車(ちゅうしゃ): parking (e.g. car) 停車(ていしゃ): stopping (e.g. train) 歯車(はぐるま): gear, cog-wheel 発車(はっしゃ): departure of a vehicle 列車(れっしゃ): train (ordinary) 汽車(きしゃ): train (locomotive) 駐車場(ちゅうしゃじょう): parking lot 車(くるま): car, vehicle, wheel 自転車(じてんしゃ): bicycle 自動車(じどうしゃ): automobile 電車(でんしゃ): electric train Kunyomi: くるま Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 車 (くるま)"	"car 車 画数7 304 Details Story Dictionary 車 car Heisig's You may keep the whole range of connotations for this keyword, car, provided it does not interfere with the pictograph. Look for the front and back wheels (the first and last horizontal strokes) and the seat in the carriage in the middle. As an exercise, try to isolate the primitives on your own and make a story out of them. * Car, cart, wagon, and vehicle may all be used as primitive meanings. Koohii #1 My car is so fast it can go through ten rice fields in ten minutes. Koohii #2 Rather than hobbling along with a walking stick to cross through a span, it´s much better to use a car. (Imagine an old man with a walking stick creeping along a span of road, and you, in a car, whizzing right by him. It´s funny ´cause it´s true.) Also, it´s important to include the word ""through,"" so you know the walking stick goes right THROUGH the span. Primitives car, sun, ten, needle 風車(かざぐるま): windmill, pinwheel 機関車(きかんしゃ): locomotive, engine 下車(げしゃ): alighting, getting off 車庫(しゃこ): garage 車掌(しゃしょう): (train) conductor 車輪(しゃりん): (car) wheel 乗車(じょうしゃ): taking a train 駐車(ちゅうしゃ): parking (e.g. car) 停車(ていしゃ): stopping (e.g. train) 歯車(はぐるま): gear, cog-wheel 発車(はっしゃ): departure of a vehicle 列車(れっしゃ): train (ordinary) 汽車(きしゃ): train (locomotive) 駐車場(ちゅうしゃじょう): parking lot 車(くるま): car, vehicle, wheel 自転車(じてんしゃ): bicycle 自動車(じどうしゃ): automobile 電車(でんしゃ): electric train Kunyomi: くるま Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 車 (くるま)"
"take along Details Story Dictionary 連 take along My Story When I am on the *move* I always take along my car. Take Along 連 = when you take a guest in your car on the road. The difference between 輸 (#289), 連 (#287) and 運 (#303)? Transport 輸= when your car moves big items, like meat and sabers for that one butcher's hut. Take Along 連 = when you take a guest in your car on the road. Carry 運 = the luck you carry when the king's carriage is out on the road, tossing gold coins to bystanders. Koohii #1 When you put your car on the road you should always take along a few friends. Don´t confuse with carry (#303). Koohii #2 This kanji also means ""linked"" or ""series"" so I´ve changed the kanji meaning to ""GO ALONG (WITH EACH OTHER)."" Well, a ROAD and a CAR certainly GO ALONG with each other. And the CAR will help you to GO ALONG the ROAD. This Kanji is the ""Union"" in Soviet Union and the ""United"" of United Nations (the countries that ""go along with each other"" at least some of the time). Primitives take along, car, road 一連(いちれん): a series, a chain, a ream (of paper) 国連(こくれん): U.N., United Nations 連なる(つらなる): to extend, to stretch out, to stand in a row 連ねる(つらねる): to link, to join, to put together 連休(れんきゅう): consecutive holidays 連日(れんじつ): every day, prolonged 連中(れんじゅう): colleagues, company, a lot 連帯(れんたい): solidarity 連邦(れんぽう): commonwealth, federation of states 連盟(れんめい): league, union, alliance 連絡(れんらく): junction, communication, connection, coordination 関連(かんれん): relation, connection, relevance 連れ(つれ): companion, company 連合(れんごう): union, alliance 連想(れんそう): association (of ideas), suggestion 連続(れんぞく): serial, consecutive, continuity, occurring in succession, continuing 連れる(つれる): bring Kunyomi: つら.なる、つら.ねる、つ.れる、-づ.れ Onyomi: レン Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 連れる (つ.れる), 連なる (つら.なる), 連ねる (つら.ねる)"	"take along 連 画数10 305 Details Story Dictionary 連 take along My Story When I am on the *move* I always take along my car. Take Along 連 = when you take a guest in your car on the road. The difference between 輸 (#289), 連 (#287) and 運 (#303)? Transport 輸= when your car moves big items, like meat and sabers for that one butcher's hut. Take Along 連 = when you take a guest in your car on the road. Carry 運 = the luck you carry when the king's carriage is out on the road, tossing gold coins to bystanders. Koohii #1 When you put your car on the road you should always take along a few friends. Don´t confuse with carry (#303). Koohii #2 This kanji also means ""linked"" or ""series"" so I´ve changed the kanji meaning to ""GO ALONG (WITH EACH OTHER)."" Well, a ROAD and a CAR certainly GO ALONG with each other. And the CAR will help you to GO ALONG the ROAD. This Kanji is the ""Union"" in Soviet Union and the ""United"" of United Nations (the countries that ""go along with each other"" at least some of the time). Primitives take along, car, road 一連(いちれん): a series, a chain, a ream (of paper) 国連(こくれん): U.N., United Nations 連なる(つらなる): to extend, to stretch out, to stand in a row 連ねる(つらねる): to link, to join, to put together 連休(れんきゅう): consecutive holidays 連日(れんじつ): every day, prolonged 連中(れんじゅう): colleagues, company, a lot 連帯(れんたい): solidarity 連邦(れんぽう): commonwealth, federation of states 連盟(れんめい): league, union, alliance 連絡(れんらく): junction, communication, connection, coordination 関連(かんれん): relation, connection, relevance 連れ(つれ): companion, company 連合(れんごう): union, alliance 連想(れんそう): association (of ideas), suggestion 連続(れんぞく): serial, consecutive, continuity, occurring in succession, continuing 連れる(つれる): bring Kunyomi: つら.なる、つら.ねる、つ.れる、-づ.れ Onyomi: レン Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 連れる (つ.れる), 連なる (つら.なる), 連ねる (つら.ねる)"
rut Details Story Dictionary 軌 rut Heisig's Combine the primary and secondary meanings of this keyword to form your story. Begin with the car whose tires get caught in a rut and spin without going anywhere. Then go onto the baseball team who can't win a game because it has fallen into a rut of losing. Koohii #1 My car got so stuck in a rut it required nine people pushing to get it out again. Koohii #2 I got my car stuck in a rut ! I´m gonna have to call 999 ! Primitives rut, car, nine, baseball 軌道(きどう): orbit, railroad track Kunyomi: Onyomi: キ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	rut 軌 画数9 306 Details Story Dictionary 軌 rut Heisig's Combine the primary and secondary meanings of this keyword to form your story. Begin with the car whose tires get caught in a rut and spin without going anywhere. Then go onto the baseball team who can't win a game because it has fallen into a rut of losing. Koohii #1 My car got so stuck in a rut it required nine people pushing to get it out again. Koohii #2 I got my car stuck in a rut ! I´m gonna have to call 999 ! Primitives rut, car, nine, baseball 軌道(きどう): orbit, railroad track Kunyomi: Onyomi: キ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
transport Details Story Dictionary 輸 transport My Story The *car* transports animals for a meeting with *the butcher*. The difference between {輸}, {連} and {運} ? Transport 輸= when your car moves big items, like meat and sabers for that one butcher's hut. Take Along 連 = when you take a guest in your car on the road. Carry 運 = the luck you carry when the king's carriage is out on the road, tossing gold coins to bystanders. Be careful: - {輪} Koohii #1 The car is a cattle-car, used to transport animals for the butcher´s meeting - a convention on new butchering techniques. Hear the screams of the animals as it pulls up in front of the convention hall, where the butchers are waiting with their knives out front. Koohii #2 The vehicle transports animals for a meeting with the butcher. Primitives transport, car, meeting of butchers, umbrella, one, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sword, sabre, saber 運輸(うんゆ): transportation 輸血(ゆけつ): blood transfusion 輸送(ゆそう): transport, transportation 輸入(ゆにゅう): importation, import, introduction 輸出(ゆしゅつ): export Kunyomi: Onyomi: ユ、シュ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	transport 輸 画数16 307 Details Story Dictionary 輸 transport My Story The *car* transports animals for a meeting with *the butcher*. The difference between {輸}, {連} and {運} ? Transport 輸= when your car moves big items, like meat and sabers for that one butcher's hut. Take Along 連 = when you take a guest in your car on the road. Carry 運 = the luck you carry when the king's carriage is out on the road, tossing gold coins to bystanders. Be careful: - {輪} Koohii #1 The car is a cattle-car, used to transport animals for the butcher´s meeting - a convention on new butchering techniques. Hear the screams of the animals as it pulls up in front of the convention hall, where the butchers are waiting with their knives out front. Koohii #2 The vehicle transports animals for a meeting with the butcher. Primitives transport, car, meeting of butchers, umbrella, one, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sword, sabre, saber 運輸(うんゆ): transportation 輸血(ゆけつ): blood transfusion 輸送(ゆそう): transport, transportation 輸入(ゆにゅう): importation, import, introduction 輸出(ゆしゅつ): export Kunyomi: Onyomi: ユ、シュ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
metaphor Details Story Dictionary 喩 喻 metaphor Heisig's People who try to sound literary often end up butchering the language. Here we see a meeting of butchers whose mouths are producing the metaphors. Koohii #1 Metaphorically speaking, all the equipment in your mouth is basically just a meeting of butchers, designed to pulverize whatever meat you put in there. Koohii #2 Metaphor: A good metaphor flows from the mouth like the meeting of flesh and saber, smoothly piercing the listener with its meaning. But a bad metaphor is like when you barely nick the flesh and only spill two drops of blood or when your saber doesn't penetrate at all but rather bends into a くく shape when you whack the flesh. (Note: This story incorporates both the traditional form of the kanji (口＋兪) and the simplified form (口＋俞)) . Kunyomi: さと.す、 たと.える Onyomi: ユ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	metaphor 喩 喻 画数12 308 Details Story Dictionary 喩 喻 metaphor Heisig's People who try to sound literary often end up butchering the language. Here we see a meeting of butchers whose mouths are producing the metaphors. Koohii #1 Metaphorically speaking, all the equipment in your mouth is basically just a meeting of butchers, designed to pulverize whatever meat you put in there. Koohii #2 Metaphor: A good metaphor flows from the mouth like the meeting of flesh and saber, smoothly piercing the listener with its meaning. But a bad metaphor is like when you barely nick the flesh and only spill two drops of blood or when your saber doesn't penetrate at all but rather bends into a くく shape when you whack the flesh. (Note: This story incorporates both the traditional form of the kanji (口＋兪) and the simplified form (口＋俞)) . Kunyomi: さと.す、 たと.える Onyomi: ユ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
in front Details Story Dictionary 前 in front Heisig's We waited to introduce this character until now, even though the pieces have been available for some time, because it helps to reinforce the odd kanji of the last frame. Picture the butcher hacking away with his knife at a slab of meat on his table with a pair of ram's horns placed in front of him (or on his head, if you prefer). There is no need to worry about confusing this kanji with that for before (Frame 263), since it will not appear as a primitive in any other character used in this book. Koohii #1 When I get horny my flesh sword sticks out in front of me. Koohii #2 If you stand in front of a bull´s horns, you are asking for your flesh to be cut (or butchered if you prefer). Primitives in front, horns, butcher, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sword, sabre, saber 当たり前(あたりまえ): usual, common, ordinary, natural, reasonable, obvious 腕前(うでまえ): ability, skill, facility 事前(じぜん): prior, beforehand, in advance 前(せん): before 前提(ぜんてい): preamble, premise, reason, prerequisite 前途(ぜんと): future prospects, outlook, the journey ahead 前例(ぜんれい): precedent 建前(たてまえ): face, official stance, public position or attitude (as opposed to private thoughts) 前売り(まえうり): advance sale, booking 前置き(まえおき): preface, introduction 前もって(まえもって): in advance, beforehand, previously 真ん前(まんまえ): right in front, under the nose 以前(いぜん): ago, since, before, previous 前後(ぜんご): around, throughout, front and back, before and behind, before and after, about that (time), longitudinal, context, nearly, approximately 前者(ぜんしゃ): the former 前進(ぜんしん): advance, drive, progress 直前(ちょくぜん): just before 手前(てまえ): before, this side, we, you 午前(ごぜん): morning, A.M. 名前(なまえ): name 前(まえ): front Kunyomi: まえ、-まえ Onyomi: ゼン Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 前 (まえ)	in front 前 画数9 309 Details Story Dictionary 前 in front Heisig's We waited to introduce this character until now, even though the pieces have been available for some time, because it helps to reinforce the odd kanji of the last frame. Picture the butcher hacking away with his knife at a slab of meat on his table with a pair of ram's horns placed in front of him (or on his head, if you prefer). There is no need to worry about confusing this kanji with that for before (Frame 263), since it will not appear as a primitive in any other character used in this book. Koohii #1 When I get horny my flesh sword sticks out in front of me. Koohii #2 If you stand in front of a bull´s horns, you are asking for your flesh to be cut (or butchered if you prefer). Primitives in front, horns, butcher, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sword, sabre, saber 当たり前(あたりまえ): usual, common, ordinary, natural, reasonable, obvious 腕前(うでまえ): ability, skill, facility 事前(じぜん): prior, beforehand, in advance 前(せん): before 前提(ぜんてい): preamble, premise, reason, prerequisite 前途(ぜんと): future prospects, outlook, the journey ahead 前例(ぜんれい): precedent 建前(たてまえ): face, official stance, public position or attitude (as opposed to private thoughts) 前売り(まえうり): advance sale, booking 前置き(まえおき): preface, introduction 前もって(まえもって): in advance, beforehand, previously 真ん前(まんまえ): right in front, under the nose 以前(いぜん): ago, since, before, previous 前後(ぜんご): around, throughout, front and back, before and behind, before and after, about that (time), longitudinal, context, nearly, approximately 前者(ぜんしゃ): the former 前進(ぜんしん): advance, drive, progress 直前(ちょくぜん): just before 手前(てまえ): before, this side, we, you 午前(ごぜん): morning, A.M. 名前(なまえ): name 前(まえ): front Kunyomi: まえ、-まえ Onyomi: ゼン Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 前 (まえ)
roast Details Story Dictionary 煎 roast Heisig's Think of roasting the guest of honor at a party - literally, in front of an oven-fire. Koohii #1 In many asian restaurants, meat is roasted right in front of you over flames. Koohii #2 At the roast, they make the roastee sit in front of everyone else, over the flames to speak, as the comedians roast him a new one! Primitives roast, in front, horns, butcher, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sword, sabre, saber, oven-fire, barbecue 煎る(いる): to parch, to fry, to fire, to broil, to roast, to boil down (in oil) Kunyomi: せん.じる、い.る、に.る Onyomi: セン Lesson: 13 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 煎る (い.る)	roast 煎 画数13 310 Details Story Dictionary 煎 roast Heisig's Think of roasting the guest of honor at a party - literally, in front of an oven-fire. Koohii #1 In many asian restaurants, meat is roasted right in front of you over flames. Koohii #2 At the roast, they make the roastee sit in front of everyone else, over the flames to speak, as the comedians roast him a new one! Primitives roast, in front, horns, butcher, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sword, sabre, saber, oven-fire, barbecue 煎る(いる): to parch, to fry, to fire, to broil, to roast, to boil down (in oil) Kunyomi: せん.じる、い.る、に.る Onyomi: セン Lesson: 13 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 煎る (い.る)
"each Details Story Dictionary 各 each Heisig's ""Suum cuique"" goes the popular Latin proverb. A certain disease of the English language makes it almost impossible to translate the phrase without gender bias. In any event, here we see someone walking with his/her mouth between his/her walking legs, giving us an image of ""To each his/her own."" * The sense of the proverb should help when using this kanji as a primitive; otherwise, reduce it to its original elements. But do not associate it in any way with the word ""every,"" which we shall meet later in another context. Koohii #1 Son, I´ve never told you this but each woman has a second mouth between their fiiiiiine walking legs. Koohii #2 Each and every one of us walks and talks differently. Primitives each, walking legs, mouth 各種(かくしゅ): every kind, all sorts 各々(それぞれ): each, every, either, respectively, severally 各々(おのおの): each, every, either, respectively, severally 各自(かくじ): individual, each 各地(かくち): every place, various places Kunyomi: おのおの Onyomi: カク Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 各 (おのおの)"	"each 各 画数6 311 Details Story Dictionary 各 each Heisig's ""Suum cuique"" goes the popular Latin proverb. A certain disease of the English language makes it almost impossible to translate the phrase without gender bias. In any event, here we see someone walking with his/her mouth between his/her walking legs, giving us an image of ""To each his/her own."" * The sense of the proverb should help when using this kanji as a primitive; otherwise, reduce it to its original elements. But do not associate it in any way with the word ""every,"" which we shall meet later in another context. Koohii #1 Son, I´ve never told you this but each woman has a second mouth between their fiiiiiine walking legs. Koohii #2 Each and every one of us walks and talks differently. Primitives each, walking legs, mouth 各種(かくしゅ): every kind, all sorts 各々(それぞれ): each, every, either, respectively, severally 各々(おのおの): each, every, either, respectively, severally 各自(かくじ): individual, each 各地(かくち): every place, various places Kunyomi: おのおの Onyomi: カク Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 各 (おのおの)"
"status Details Story Dictionary 格 status Heisig's If you can imagine trees as status symbols (as they might well be for those living in Japan's congested cities, where greenery has become something of a luxury item), then each might be aiming to have his/her own tree, just to keep up with the Suzukis. Koohii #1 Ranger! I want you to go check the status of each tree. ""Errr, Each tree sir?"" replies the ranger looking out over the vast forest. ""That´s Right, I want the status of each tree! Move out!"". Koohii #2 A man measures his own status by the size of his woody...and compares it to each one he sees. Primitives status, tree, wood, each, walking legs, mouth 格(かく): status, character, case 格差(かくさ): qualitative difference, disparity 格好(かっこう): shape, form, appearance, manner 規格(きかく): standard, norm 資格(しかく): qualifications, requirements, capabilities 失格(しっかく): disqualification, elimination, incapacity (legal) 人格(じんかく): personality, character, individuality 体格(たいかく): physique, constitution 本格(ほんかく): propriety, fundamental rules 価格(かかく): price, value, cost 格別(かくべつ): exceptional 合格(ごうかく): success, passing (e.g. exam), eligibility 性格(せいかく): character, personality 同格(どうかく): the same rank, equality, apposition Kunyomi: Onyomi: カク、コウ、キャク、ゴウ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 格式 (かくしき), 規格 (きかく), 性格 (せいかく)"	"status 格 画数10 312 Details Story Dictionary 格 status Heisig's If you can imagine trees as status symbols (as they might well be for those living in Japan's congested cities, where greenery has become something of a luxury item), then each might be aiming to have his/her own tree, just to keep up with the Suzukis. Koohii #1 Ranger! I want you to go check the status of each tree. ""Errr, Each tree sir?"" replies the ranger looking out over the vast forest. ""That´s Right, I want the status of each tree! Move out!"". Koohii #2 A man measures his own status by the size of his woody...and compares it to each one he sees. Primitives status, tree, wood, each, walking legs, mouth 格(かく): status, character, case 格差(かくさ): qualitative difference, disparity 格好(かっこう): shape, form, appearance, manner 規格(きかく): standard, norm 資格(しかく): qualifications, requirements, capabilities 失格(しっかく): disqualification, elimination, incapacity (legal) 人格(じんかく): personality, character, individuality 体格(たいかく): physique, constitution 本格(ほんかく): propriety, fundamental rules 価格(かかく): price, value, cost 格別(かくべつ): exceptional 合格(ごうかく): success, passing (e.g. exam), eligibility 性格(せいかく): character, personality 同格(どうかく): the same rank, equality, apposition Kunyomi: Onyomi: カク、コウ、キャク、ゴウ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 格式 (かくしき), 規格 (きかく), 性格 (せいかく)"
graft Details Story Dictionary 賂 graft Heisig's To those who believe in the inevitability of graft in government, everything has a price - or as this character has it, to each office its outlay of shells. Koohii #1 It might sound simple to bribe someone, but then you have to graft the guy above him and the guy below him, and soon you´re just giving shells to each and everyone! Koohii #2 When I was caught by the police doing some graft (graffiti), I gave each cop some clams and told them to be on their way. 賄賂【わいろ】 bribe. Primitives graft, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, each, walking legs, mouth Kunyomi: まいな.い、まいな.う Onyomi: ロ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	graft 賂 画数13 313 Details Story Dictionary 賂 graft Heisig's To those who believe in the inevitability of graft in government, everything has a price - or as this character has it, to each office its outlay of shells. Koohii #1 It might sound simple to bribe someone, but then you have to graft the guy above him and the guy below him, and soon you´re just giving shells to each and everyone! Koohii #2 When I was caught by the police doing some graft (graffiti), I gave each cop some clams and told them to be on their way. 賄賂【わいろ】 bribe. Primitives graft, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, each, walking legs, mouth Kunyomi: まいな.い、まいな.う Onyomi: ロ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
"abbreviation Details Story Dictionary 略 abbreviation Heisig's Each field has its own abbreviations (chemistry, philosophy, sports, etc.). Needless to say, the ""stronger"" primitive - thatis to say, the simpler and more often used one - takes the dominant position on the left, even though the story would read them off the other way around. Koohii #1 There are so many abbreviations and acronyms nowadays that no brain can remember each of them. Mnemonic: ab-brain-each-ation. Koohii #2 A very anal farmer wants to catologue each grain of rice in his rice field. Imagine him scribbling a tiny abbreviation of his name and a number on each grain. Primitives abbreviation, rice field, brains, each, walking legs, mouth 概略(がいりゃく): outline, summary, gist, in brief 侵略(しんりゃく): aggression, invasion, raid 略語(りゃくご): abbreviation, acronym 略奪(りゃくだつ): pillage, plunder, looting, robbery 省略(しょうりゃく): omission, abbreviation, abridgment 略す(りゃくす): abbreviate Kunyomi: ほぼ、おか.す、おさ.める、はかりごと、はか.る、はぶ.く、りゃく.す、りゃく.する Onyomi: リャク Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"abbreviation 略 画数11 314 Details Story Dictionary 略 abbreviation Heisig's Each field has its own abbreviations (chemistry, philosophy, sports, etc.). Needless to say, the ""stronger"" primitive - thatis to say, the simpler and more often used one - takes the dominant position on the left, even though the story would read them off the other way around. Koohii #1 There are so many abbreviations and acronyms nowadays that no brain can remember each of them. Mnemonic: ab-brain-each-ation. Koohii #2 A very anal farmer wants to catologue each grain of rice in his rice field. Imagine him scribbling a tiny abbreviation of his name and a number on each grain. Primitives abbreviation, rice field, brains, each, walking legs, mouth 概略(がいりゃく): outline, summary, gist, in brief 侵略(しんりゃく): aggression, invasion, raid 略語(りゃくご): abbreviation, acronym 略奪(りゃくだつ): pillage, plunder, looting, robbery 省略(しょうりゃく): omission, abbreviation, abridgment 略す(りゃくす): abbreviate Kunyomi: ほぼ、おか.す、おさ.める、はかりごと、はか.る、はぶ.く、りゃく.す、りゃく.する Onyomi: リャク Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
guest Details Story Dictionary 客 guest Heisig's When you are a guest in a courteous town, each household has its own way of welcoming you, and each house becomes your home. Koohii #1 Each person under my roof is treated as a guest. Koohii #2 In my house I welcome each guest. Primitives guest, house, each, walking legs, mouth 客(きゃく): guest, customer 客観(きゃっかん): objective 乗客(じょうかく): passenger 旅客(りょかく): passenger (transport) 観客(かんきゃく): audience, spectator(s) 客席(きゃくせき): guest seating 客間(きゃくま): parlor, guest room 乗客(じょうきゃく): passenger 客(きゃく): guest Kunyomi: Onyomi: キャク、カク Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 客間 (きゃくま), 客車 (きゃくしゃ), 乗客 (じょうきゃく)	guest 客 画数9 315 Details Story Dictionary 客 guest Heisig's When you are a guest in a courteous town, each household has its own way of welcoming you, and each house becomes your home. Koohii #1 Each person under my roof is treated as a guest. Koohii #2 In my house I welcome each guest. Primitives guest, house, each, walking legs, mouth 客(きゃく): guest, customer 客観(きゃっかん): objective 乗客(じょうかく): passenger 旅客(りょかく): passenger (transport) 観客(かんきゃく): audience, spectator(s) 客席(きゃくせき): guest seating 客間(きゃくま): parlor, guest room 乗客(じょうきゃく): passenger 客(きゃく): guest Kunyomi: Onyomi: キャク、カク Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 客間 (きゃくま), 客車 (きゃくしゃ), 乗客 (じょうきゃく)
forehead Details Story Dictionary 額 forehead Heisig's As Miss Manners will be the first to tell you, out of respect, one does not look straight into the eyes of one's guests, but focus on the top button of their collar. Here, however, you are told to look above the eyes to the forehead of your guest. Koohii #1 Sign the guestbook page with your forehead. (Picture a guestbook full of forehead prints like thumbprints). Koohii #2 In New Zealand, people welcome guests by touching their foreheads together. Primitives forehead, guest, house, each, walking legs, mouth, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 差額(さがく): balance, difference, margin 額(がく): picture (framed), amount (of money) 金額(きんがく): amount of money 額(ひたい): forehead, brow Kunyomi: ひたい Onyomi: ガク Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 額 (ひたい)	forehead 額 画数18 316 Details Story Dictionary 額 forehead Heisig's As Miss Manners will be the first to tell you, out of respect, one does not look straight into the eyes of one's guests, but focus on the top button of their collar. Here, however, you are told to look above the eyes to the forehead of your guest. Koohii #1 Sign the guestbook page with your forehead. (Picture a guestbook full of forehead prints like thumbprints). Koohii #2 In New Zealand, people welcome guests by touching their foreheads together. Primitives forehead, guest, house, each, walking legs, mouth, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 差額(さがく): balance, difference, margin 額(がく): picture (framed), amount (of money) 金額(きんがく): amount of money 額(ひたい): forehead, brow Kunyomi: ひたい Onyomi: ガク Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 額 (ひたい)
"summer Details Story Dictionary 夏 summer Heisig's In the summer, fatigued by the heat, your head hangs down nearly as far as your walking legs, or rather, your ""dragging legs."" Note how the walking legs (instead of ""animal legs"") are the only thing that distinguishes this character from that for page (Frame 64). Koohii #1 In SUMMER you are hot from the top of your head down to your walking legs. Koohii #2 I personally think it was too confusing to try and use head as the primitive. (How am I supposed to remember that the animal legs are replaced with walking legs instead of human legs?) Rather, I think have the image of a hot summer and you want to keep oneself under a ceiling not out jogging around. Primitives summer, one, ceiling, drop, eye, walking legs 夏(なつ): summer 夏休み(なつやすみ): summer vacation, summer holiday Kunyomi: なつ Onyomi: カ、ガ、ゲ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 夏季 (かき), 初夏 (しょか), 盛夏 (せいか), 夏 (なつ)"	"summer 夏 画数10 317 Details Story Dictionary 夏 summer Heisig's In the summer, fatigued by the heat, your head hangs down nearly as far as your walking legs, or rather, your ""dragging legs."" Note how the walking legs (instead of ""animal legs"") are the only thing that distinguishes this character from that for page (Frame 64). Koohii #1 In SUMMER you are hot from the top of your head down to your walking legs. Koohii #2 I personally think it was too confusing to try and use head as the primitive. (How am I supposed to remember that the animal legs are replaced with walking legs instead of human legs?) Rather, I think have the image of a hot summer and you want to keep oneself under a ceiling not out jogging around. Primitives summer, one, ceiling, drop, eye, walking legs 夏(なつ): summer 夏休み(なつやすみ): summer vacation, summer holiday Kunyomi: なつ Onyomi: カ、ガ、ゲ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 夏季 (かき), 初夏 (しょか), 盛夏 (せいか), 夏 (なつ)"
dispose Details Story Dictionary 処 dispose Heisig's Both the stretching out of the walking legs and the little bit of wind tucked in on the right suggest using one's legs to kick something out of the way, or dispose of it. Koohii #1 The best way to dispose of a nasty bit of wind is to let it go and use those walking legs to dissapear. Nobody will ever know it was you. Koohii #2 To dispose of rubbish you should walk it to the bin not throw it to the wind. Primitives dispose, walking legs, wind 彼処(あそこ): (uk) there, over there, that place, (X) (col) genitals 処置(しょち): treatment 処罰(しょばつ): punishment 処分(しょぶん): disposal, dealing, punishment 其処(そこ): that place, there 其処で(そこで): so (conj), accordingly, now, then, thereupon 其処ら(そこら): everywhere, somewhere, approximately, that area, around there 対処(たいしょ): deal with, cope 処理(しょり): processing, dealing with, treatment, disposition, disposal Kunyomi: ところ、-こ、お.る Onyomi: ショ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	dispose 処 画数5 318 Details Story Dictionary 処 dispose Heisig's Both the stretching out of the walking legs and the little bit of wind tucked in on the right suggest using one's legs to kick something out of the way, or dispose of it. Koohii #1 The best way to dispose of a nasty bit of wind is to let it go and use those walking legs to dissapear. Nobody will ever know it was you. Koohii #2 To dispose of rubbish you should walk it to the bin not throw it to the wind. Primitives dispose, walking legs, wind 彼処(あそこ): (uk) there, over there, that place, (X) (col) genitals 処置(しょち): treatment 処罰(しょばつ): punishment 処分(しょぶん): disposal, dealing, punishment 其処(そこ): that place, there 其処で(そこで): so (conj), accordingly, now, then, thereupon 其処ら(そこら): everywhere, somewhere, approximately, that area, around there 対処(たいしょ): deal with, cope 処理(しょり): processing, dealing with, treatment, disposition, disposal Kunyomi: ところ、-こ、お.る Onyomi: ショ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
twig Details Story Dictionary 条 twig My Story [Each + Tree] In the woods, *Each* *tree* has a branch that is a twig Koohii #1 They all say they have a TREE between their WALKING LEGS but most only have a TWIG. Koohii #2 Don´t confuse with branch or bough - think of snapping twigs. A twig is always the kind of wood that snaps when the hunter´s walking legs just barely touch it, making a snapping sound that alerts the prey to the hunter´s presence. Primitives twig, walking legs, tree, wood 箇条書き(かじょうがき): itemized form, itemization 条約(じょうやく): treaty, pact 発条(ばね): spring (e.g. coil leaf) 条件(じょうけん): conditions, terms Kunyomi: えだ、すじ Onyomi: ジョウ、チョウ、デキ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	twig 条 画数7 319 Details Story Dictionary 条 twig My Story [Each + Tree] In the woods, *Each* *tree* has a branch that is a twig Koohii #1 They all say they have a TREE between their WALKING LEGS but most only have a TWIG. Koohii #2 Don´t confuse with branch or bough - think of snapping twigs. A twig is always the kind of wood that snaps when the hunter´s walking legs just barely touch it, making a snapping sound that alerts the prey to the hunter´s presence. Primitives twig, walking legs, tree, wood 箇条書き(かじょうがき): itemized form, itemization 条約(じょうやく): treaty, pact 発条(ばね): spring (e.g. coil leaf) 条件(じょうけん): conditions, terms Kunyomi: えだ、すじ Onyomi: ジョウ、チョウ、デキ Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
fall Details Story Dictionary 落 fall Heisig's When water falls, it splats and splashes; when flower petals fall, they float gently in the breeze. To each thing its own way of falling. Koohii #1 Water each flower or the petals will wither and fall. Koohii #2 [It´s been suggested on the forum (http://forum.koohii.com/viewtopic.php?id=1079) that flower across the full width of the kanji and water on the left below it should have its own keyword; seaweed is a popular choice. See also dilute (#227), clan (#1912), seaweed (#2035). This story is for the benefit of those using that idea.] Picture a group of Japanese skydivers falling through the sky -- suddenly each one opens, instead of a parachute, an enormous sheet of nori seaweed to carry them safely down. Primitives fall, flowers, water, water droplets, water pistol, each, walking legs, mouth お洒落(おしゃれ): smartly dressed, someone smartly dressed, fashion-conscious 落ち込む(おちこむ): to fall into, to feel down (sad) 落ち着き(おちつき): calm, composure 落ち葉(おちば): fallen leaves, leaf litter, defoliation, shedding leaves 洒落(しゃらく): frank, open-hearted 洒落る(しゃれる): to joke, to play on words, to dress stylishly 墜落(ついらく): falling, crashing 転落(てんらく): fall, degradation, slump 没落(ぼつらく): ruin, fall, collapse 見落とす(みおとす): to overlook, to fail to notice 落下(らっか): fall, drop, come down 落着く(おちつく): calm down, settle in, be steady 落し物(おとしもの): lost property 洒落(しゃれ): frank, open-hearted 落第(らくだい): failure, dropping out of a class 落ちる(おちる): fall, drop, come down 落とす(おとす): drop, let fall Kunyomi: お.ちる、お.ち、お.とす Onyomi: ラク Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 落ちる (お.ちる), 落とす (お.とす)	fall 落 画数12 320 Details Story Dictionary 落 fall Heisig's When water falls, it splats and splashes; when flower petals fall, they float gently in the breeze. To each thing its own way of falling. Koohii #1 Water each flower or the petals will wither and fall. Koohii #2 [It´s been suggested on the forum (http://forum.koohii.com/viewtopic.php?id=1079) that flower across the full width of the kanji and water on the left below it should have its own keyword; seaweed is a popular choice. See also dilute (#227), clan (#1912), seaweed (#2035). This story is for the benefit of those using that idea.] Picture a group of Japanese skydivers falling through the sky -- suddenly each one opens, instead of a parachute, an enormous sheet of nori seaweed to carry them safely down. Primitives fall, flowers, water, water droplets, water pistol, each, walking legs, mouth お洒落(おしゃれ): smartly dressed, someone smartly dressed, fashion-conscious 落ち込む(おちこむ): to fall into, to feel down (sad) 落ち着き(おちつき): calm, composure 落ち葉(おちば): fallen leaves, leaf litter, defoliation, shedding leaves 洒落(しゃらく): frank, open-hearted 洒落る(しゃれる): to joke, to play on words, to dress stylishly 墜落(ついらく): falling, crashing 転落(てんらく): fall, degradation, slump 没落(ぼつらく): ruin, fall, collapse 見落とす(みおとす): to overlook, to fail to notice 落下(らっか): fall, drop, come down 落着く(おちつく): calm down, settle in, be steady 落し物(おとしもの): lost property 洒落(しゃれ): frank, open-hearted 落第(らくだい): failure, dropping out of a class 落ちる(おちる): fall, drop, come down 落とす(おとす): drop, let fall Kunyomi: お.ちる、お.ち、お.とす Onyomi: ラク Lesson: 13 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 落ちる (お.ちる), 落とす (お.とす)
"superfluous Details Story Dictionary 冗 superfluous Heisig's Picture a weather vane beneath a regal crown, spinning round and round. It is not only superfluous but makes a perfect ass out of the one who wears it. Koohii #1 The king´s crown was blown off by the wind. ""Oh well,"" he said, ""it´s just a superfluous symbol."". Koohii #2 The court jester wears a crown and is full of wind with bad jokes. He is superfluous to the King´s court. This kanji is read as ""JOU"" and commonly used to create the compound for jou-dan 冗談 (jest or joke) hence court jester. Also jou-go 冗語 (redundancy) and jou-in 冗員 (useless workers) 員-employee (#56). Primitives superfluous, crown, weathercock, wind 冗談(じょうだん): jest, joke Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"superfluous 冗 画数4 321 Details Story Dictionary 冗 superfluous Heisig's Picture a weather vane beneath a regal crown, spinning round and round. It is not only superfluous but makes a perfect ass out of the one who wears it. Koohii #1 The king´s crown was blown off by the wind. ""Oh well,"" he said, ""it´s just a superfluous symbol."". Koohii #2 The court jester wears a crown and is full of wind with bad jokes. He is superfluous to the King´s court. This kanji is read as ""JOU"" and commonly used to create the compound for jou-dan 冗談 (jest or joke) hence court jester. Also jou-go 冗語 (redundancy) and jou-in 冗員 (useless workers) 員-employee (#56). Primitives superfluous, crown, weathercock, wind 冗談(じょうだん): jest, joke Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"Hades Details Story Dictionary 冥 Hades Heisig's The key word in this frame refers to the underworld, the world of the dead. By way of the classic Greek association, it is also used for the ""dwarf planet"" Pluto. Since no one knows precisely when this part of the cosmos was finished, we may imagine it as the crowning deed of day six of the creation. Koohii #1 The beast of hades one day will wear a crown, and the number of the beast is 666. Koohii #2 In Hades you have to work six days a week before crowning it with something vaguely resembling a weekend. Oh wait, that´s Japan. Primitives hades, crown, sun, day, six Kunyomi: くら.い Onyomi: メイ、ミョウ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"Hades 冥 画数10 322 Details Story Dictionary 冥 Hades Heisig's The key word in this frame refers to the underworld, the world of the dead. By way of the classic Greek association, it is also used for the ""dwarf planet"" Pluto. Since no one knows precisely when this part of the cosmos was finished, we may imagine it as the crowning deed of day six of the creation. Koohii #1 The beast of hades one day will wear a crown, and the number of the beast is 666. Koohii #2 In Hades you have to work six days a week before crowning it with something vaguely resembling a weekend. Oh wait, that´s Japan. Primitives hades, crown, sun, day, six Kunyomi: くら.い Onyomi: メイ、ミョウ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
army Details Story Dictionary 軍 army My Story [Hat (ushanka) + Car] The russian army makes their soldiers wear *hats* while *cars* drive by * Used as a primitive this kanji means only chariot. Koohii #1 British army cars are at the service of the crown. Koohii #2 Imagine a crown is the hood ornament on every army car. Primitives army, chariot, crown, vehicle, car 軍(いくさ): war, battle, campaign, fight 軍艦(ぐんかん): warship, battleship 軍事(ぐんじ): military affairs 軍備(ぐんび): armaments, military preparations 軍服(ぐんぷく): military or naval uniform 軍(ぐん): army, force, troops 軍隊(ぐんたい): army, troops Kunyomi: Onyomi: グン Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	army 軍 画数9 323 Details Story Dictionary 軍 army My Story [Hat (ushanka) + Car] The russian army makes their soldiers wear *hats* while *cars* drive by * Used as a primitive this kanji means only chariot. Koohii #1 British army cars are at the service of the crown. Koohii #2 Imagine a crown is the hood ornament on every army car. Primitives army, chariot, crown, vehicle, car 軍(いくさ): war, battle, campaign, fight 軍艦(ぐんかん): warship, battleship 軍事(ぐんじ): military affairs 軍備(ぐんび): armaments, military preparations 軍服(ぐんぷく): military or naval uniform 軍(ぐん): army, force, troops 軍隊(ぐんたい): army, troops Kunyomi: Onyomi: グン Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
radiance Details Story Dictionary 輝 radiance Heisig's Take advantage of the first syllable of the key word to think of the ray of light to the left. Now add the glittering chariot that is emitting those rays and you have radiance. Koohii #1 Rays of light emitted from Apollo´s chariot = radiance. Don´t put the sun into this kanji. The rays are coming from the chariot directly! Koohii #2 Radiance is an army of rays. Primitives radiance, ray, small, little, human legs, army, chariot, crown, vehicle, car 輝く(かがやく): shine, glitter, sparkle Kunyomi: かがや.く Onyomi: キ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 輝く (かがや.く)	radiance 輝 画数15 324 Details Story Dictionary 輝 radiance Heisig's Take advantage of the first syllable of the key word to think of the ray of light to the left. Now add the glittering chariot that is emitting those rays and you have radiance. Koohii #1 Rays of light emitted from Apollo´s chariot = radiance. Don´t put the sun into this kanji. The rays are coming from the chariot directly! Koohii #2 Radiance is an army of rays. Primitives radiance, ray, small, little, human legs, army, chariot, crown, vehicle, car 輝く(かがやく): shine, glitter, sparkle Kunyomi: かがや.く Onyomi: キ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 輝く (かがや.く)
carry Details Story Dictionary 運 carry My Story [ Army + Movement ] The difference between 輸 (#289), 連 (#287) and 運 (#303)? Transport 輸= when your car moves big items, like meat and sabers for that one butcher's hut. Take Along 連 = when you take a guest in your car on the road. Carry 運 = the luck you carry when the king's carriage is out on the road, tossing gold coins to bystanders. Koohii #1 Don’t confuse it with “take along” (287). In that one, there was a car so you could take along your friends once you found them on the road. In this one, there is an army chariot just to carry military supplies (sorry no room for you). Koohii #2 Roads carry armies (in contrast to seas carrying navies or skies carrying air forces). Primitives carry, army, chariot, crown, vehicle, car, road 運輸(うんゆ): transportation 運用(うんよう): making use of, application, investment, practical use 運営(うんえい): management, administration, operation 運送(うんそう): shipping, marine transportation 運賃(うんちん): freight rates, shipping expenses, fare 運搬(うんぱん): transport, carriage 運命(うんめい): fate 海運(かいうん): maritime, marine transportation 運(うん): fortune, luck 運河(うんが): canal 運転(うんてん): operation, motion, driving 運動(うんどう): motion, exercise 幸運(こううん): good luck, fortune 不運(ふうん): unlucky, misfortune, bad luck, fate 運転手(うんてんしゅ): drive 運ぶ(はこぶ): bring Kunyomi: はこ.ぶ Onyomi: ウン Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 運ぶ (はこ.ぶ)	carry 運 画数12 325 Details Story Dictionary 運 carry My Story [ Army + Movement ] The difference between 輸 (#289), 連 (#287) and 運 (#303)? Transport 輸= when your car moves big items, like meat and sabers for that one butcher's hut. Take Along 連 = when you take a guest in your car on the road. Carry 運 = the luck you carry when the king's carriage is out on the road, tossing gold coins to bystanders. Koohii #1 Don’t confuse it with “take along” (287). In that one, there was a car so you could take along your friends once you found them on the road. In this one, there is an army chariot just to carry military supplies (sorry no room for you). Koohii #2 Roads carry armies (in contrast to seas carrying navies or skies carrying air forces). Primitives carry, army, chariot, crown, vehicle, car, road 運輸(うんゆ): transportation 運用(うんよう): making use of, application, investment, practical use 運営(うんえい): management, administration, operation 運送(うんそう): shipping, marine transportation 運賃(うんちん): freight rates, shipping expenses, fare 運搬(うんぱん): transport, carriage 運命(うんめい): fate 海運(かいうん): maritime, marine transportation 運(うん): fortune, luck 運河(うんが): canal 運転(うんてん): operation, motion, driving 運動(うんどう): motion, exercise 幸運(こううん): good luck, fortune 不運(ふうん): unlucky, misfortune, bad luck, fate 運転手(うんてんしゅ): drive 運ぶ(はこぶ): bring Kunyomi: はこ.ぶ Onyomi: ウン Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 運ぶ (はこ.ぶ)
"crown Details Story Dictionary 冠 crown Heisig's By having the crown pass from one age to the next, a people keeps itself glued to its beginnings. Koohii #1 Remember the SUPERFLUOUS CROWN that flew away in the WIND? Well now the king is saying ""i should have had the thing GLUED to my head from the BEGINNING"". Koohii #2 A crown, from the beginning of the new king´s life, is glued to him. He must inherit it. Primitives crown, beginning, two, human legs, glue 冠(かん): crown, diadem, first, best, peerless, cap, naming, designating, initiating on coming of age, top character radical 冠(かんむり): crown, cap, first, best, peerless, naming, designating, top kanji radical Kunyomi: かんむり Onyomi: カン Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 冠 (かんむり)"	"crown 冠 画数9 326 Details Story Dictionary 冠 crown Heisig's By having the crown pass from one age to the next, a people keeps itself glued to its beginnings. Koohii #1 Remember the SUPERFLUOUS CROWN that flew away in the WIND? Well now the king is saying ""i should have had the thing GLUED to my head from the BEGINNING"". Koohii #2 A crown, from the beginning of the new king´s life, is glued to him. He must inherit it. Primitives crown, beginning, two, human legs, glue 冠(かん): crown, diadem, first, best, peerless, cap, naming, designating, initiating on coming of age, top character radical 冠(かんむり): crown, cap, first, best, peerless, naming, designating, top kanji radical Kunyomi: かんむり Onyomi: カン Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 冠 (かんむり)"
"dream Details Story Dictionary 夢 dream Heisig's To have a dream after going to bed is really the crown to a perfect evening. The flower petals over the eyes (instead of the ""sand"" that Westerners are used to finding there when they awake in the morning) only confirms the image of a pleasant dream suggested by the rest of this rather complex kanji. Koohii #1 Last night´s date with Miss Sweden was like a dream. She even laid flowers over my eyes to crown the perfect evening. Koohii #2 In the movie American Beauty, Kevin Spacey liked to DREAM about his daughter´s friend and have a rose petal fall onto his eye from the ceiling. He did this lying in his bed each evening. You can almost see him lying in his bed in this kanji. Primitives dream, flowers, eye, cross-eyed, net, crown, evening 夢中(むちゅう): daze, (in a) trance, ecstasy, delirium, engrossment 夢(ゆめ): dream Kunyomi: ゆめ、ゆめ.みる、くら.い Onyomi: ム、ボウ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 夢 (ゆめ)"	"dream 夢 画数13 327 Details Story Dictionary 夢 dream Heisig's To have a dream after going to bed is really the crown to a perfect evening. The flower petals over the eyes (instead of the ""sand"" that Westerners are used to finding there when they awake in the morning) only confirms the image of a pleasant dream suggested by the rest of this rather complex kanji. Koohii #1 Last night´s date with Miss Sweden was like a dream. She even laid flowers over my eyes to crown the perfect evening. Koohii #2 In the movie American Beauty, Kevin Spacey liked to DREAM about his daughter´s friend and have a rose petal fall onto his eye from the ceiling. He did this lying in his bed each evening. You can almost see him lying in his bed in this kanji. Primitives dream, flowers, eye, cross-eyed, net, crown, evening 夢中(むちゅう): daze, (in a) trance, ecstasy, delirium, engrossment 夢(ゆめ): dream Kunyomi: ゆめ、ゆめ.みる、くら.い Onyomi: ム、ボウ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 夢 (ゆめ)"
pit Details Story Dictionary 坑 pit Heisig's A whirlwind begins to dig its way into the soil like a drill until it makes a deep pit. Koohii #1 A whirlwind digs a hole in the ground throwing out lots of dirt until it ends up with a giant pit. Koohii #2 Tazmanian Devil whirlwinds a pit into the soil. Note: Take care difference between pit and rut. Primitives pit, soil, dirt, ground, whirlwind, top hat, wind Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	pit 坑 画数7 328 Details Story Dictionary 坑 pit Heisig's A whirlwind begins to dig its way into the soil like a drill until it makes a deep pit. Koohii #1 A whirlwind digs a hole in the ground throwing out lots of dirt until it ends up with a giant pit. Koohii #2 Tazmanian Devil whirlwinds a pit into the soil. Note: Take care difference between pit and rut. Primitives pit, soil, dirt, ground, whirlwind, top hat, wind Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
tall Details Story Dictionary 高 tall Heisig's Recalling an image from frame 195, first see the mouth under the extraterrestrial's glass hood, and then the mouth under the top hat of one of his mates who has tried on the strange earthling's headgear only to find that it makes him look much, much taller than everyone else. * As a primitive, this character keeps its sense of tall and its position at the top of other primitives, but its writing is abbreviated to the first 5 strokes. Koohii #1 Two little aliens in a trenchcoat and top hat, trying to look TALL. The bottom one, in the glass helmet, is under the coat. The top one has his top hat pulled down in disguise, so all you can see is his mouth. Koohii #2 Here we have TWO MOUTHS each wearing a different hat. The top one is wearing a TOP HAT which is know to be as a TALL hat. The bottom one is wearing a SPACE HELMET which is known as an EXPENSIVE hat. (this kanji means both). Primitives tall, top hat, mouth, alien, hood, mouth, mouth2 高原(こうげん): tableland, plateau 高尚(こうしょう): high, noble, refined, advanced 高等学校(こうとうがっこう): senior high school 残高(ざんだか): (bank) balance, remainder 高(たか): quantity, amount, volume, number, amount of money 高まる(たかまる): to rise, to swell, to be promoted 名高い(なだかい): famous, celebrated, well-known 高価(こうか): high price 高級(こうきゅう): high class, high grade 高層(こうそう): upper 高速(こうそく): high speed, high gear 高度(こうど): altitude, height, advanced 高等(こうとう): high class, high grade 最高(さいこう): highest, supreme, the most 高める(たかめる): raise, lift, boost 高校(こうこう): high school 高校生(こうこうせい): high school student 高い(たかい): tall, high, expensive Kunyomi: たか.い、たか、-だか、たか.まる、たか.める Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 高 (たか), 高い (たか.い), 高まる (たか.まる), 高める (たか.める)	tall 高 画数10 329 Details Story Dictionary 高 tall Heisig's Recalling an image from frame 195, first see the mouth under the extraterrestrial's glass hood, and then the mouth under the top hat of one of his mates who has tried on the strange earthling's headgear only to find that it makes him look much, much taller than everyone else. * As a primitive, this character keeps its sense of tall and its position at the top of other primitives, but its writing is abbreviated to the first 5 strokes. Koohii #1 Two little aliens in a trenchcoat and top hat, trying to look TALL. The bottom one, in the glass helmet, is under the coat. The top one has his top hat pulled down in disguise, so all you can see is his mouth. Koohii #2 Here we have TWO MOUTHS each wearing a different hat. The top one is wearing a TOP HAT which is know to be as a TALL hat. The bottom one is wearing a SPACE HELMET which is known as an EXPENSIVE hat. (this kanji means both). Primitives tall, top hat, mouth, alien, hood, mouth, mouth2 高原(こうげん): tableland, plateau 高尚(こうしょう): high, noble, refined, advanced 高等学校(こうとうがっこう): senior high school 残高(ざんだか): (bank) balance, remainder 高(たか): quantity, amount, volume, number, amount of money 高まる(たかまる): to rise, to swell, to be promoted 名高い(なだかい): famous, celebrated, well-known 高価(こうか): high price 高級(こうきゅう): high class, high grade 高層(こうそう): upper 高速(こうそく): high speed, high gear 高度(こうど): altitude, height, advanced 高等(こうとう): high class, high grade 最高(さいこう): highest, supreme, the most 高める(たかめる): raise, lift, boost 高校(こうこう): high school 高校生(こうこうせい): high school student 高い(たかい): tall, high, expensive Kunyomi: たか.い、たか、-だか、たか.まる、たか.める Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 高 (たか), 高い (たか.い), 高まる (たか.まる), 高める (たか.める)
receive Details Story Dictionary 享 receive Heisig's Tall children receive more attention. Tall children grow up to make better wide receivers. Take your pick, depending on whether you prefer child psychology or American football. At any rate, be sure you have some particular tall child in mind, someone who really was outstanding and always attracting attention, because he or she will come in handy in the next two frames. Koohii #1 In basketball however, tall children receive all the attention. Koohii #2 Tall children receive all the attention. They also make great receivers in football... this kanji also means ´catch´ (therefore a football receiver is a great image). Primitives receive, tall, top hat, mouth, children 享受(きょうじゅ): reception, acceptance, enjoyment, being given Kunyomi: う.ける Onyomi: キョウ、コウ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	receive 享 画数8 330 Details Story Dictionary 享 receive Heisig's Tall children receive more attention. Tall children grow up to make better wide receivers. Take your pick, depending on whether you prefer child psychology or American football. At any rate, be sure you have some particular tall child in mind, someone who really was outstanding and always attracting attention, because he or she will come in handy in the next two frames. Koohii #1 In basketball however, tall children receive all the attention. Koohii #2 Tall children receive all the attention. They also make great receivers in football... this kanji also means ´catch´ (therefore a football receiver is a great image). Primitives receive, tall, top hat, mouth, children 享受(きょうじゅ): reception, acceptance, enjoyment, being given Kunyomi: う.ける Onyomi: キョウ、コウ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"cram school Details Story Dictionary 塾 cram school Heisig's Cram schools are after-hours educational institutions where kids can do concentrated preparing for their coming entrance examinations or drill what they missed during regular class hours. The exception are the tall children who are out on the school grounds practicing sports, and the fat ones who are out there burning off calories. So this character depicts those who do NOT go to the cram schools, rather than those who do. Koohii #1 Welcome to our cram school: you will receive a rounded education on our grounds. Koohii #2 You can receive a well-rounded education if you study at our cram school says the advertisement. ""Just come to our school grounds and check it out yourself!"". Primitives cram school, receive, tall, top hat, mouth, child, children, round, nine, baseball, drop, soil, dirt, ground 塾(じゅく): coaching school, lessons Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジュク Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"cram school 塾 画数14 331 Details Story Dictionary 塾 cram school Heisig's Cram schools are after-hours educational institutions where kids can do concentrated preparing for their coming entrance examinations or drill what they missed during regular class hours. The exception are the tall children who are out on the school grounds practicing sports, and the fat ones who are out there burning off calories. So this character depicts those who do NOT go to the cram schools, rather than those who do. Koohii #1 Welcome to our cram school: you will receive a rounded education on our grounds. Koohii #2 You can receive a well-rounded education if you study at our cram school says the advertisement. ""Just come to our school grounds and check it out yourself!"". Primitives cram school, receive, tall, top hat, mouth, child, children, round, nine, baseball, drop, soil, dirt, ground 塾(じゅく): coaching school, lessons Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジュク Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
mellow Details Story Dictionary 熟 mellow Heisig's The tall and fat children from the last frame are here cast into a cauldron over an oven flame until they have sufficiently mellowed that they can return to the normal life of a student. Koohii #1 Imagine tall children sitting round the fire toasting marsh-mellows. Koohii #2 The cram school (309) tortures its students - especially the tall and fat ones who need to grow up - over a fire until they mellow. (Note that here the keyword ´mellow´ only means to mature, ripen, or acquire skill; not the colloquial meaning of ´chill out´). Primitives mellow, receive, tall, top hat, mouth, child, children, round, nine, baseball, drop, oven-fire, barbecue 成熟(せいじゅく): maturity, ripeness 未熟(みじゅく): inexperience, unripeness, raw, unskilled, immature, inexperienced 熟語(じゅくご): idiom, idiomatic phrase, kanji compound Kunyomi: う.れる Onyomi: ジュク Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 熟れる (う.れる)	mellow 熟 画数15 332 Details Story Dictionary 熟 mellow Heisig's The tall and fat children from the last frame are here cast into a cauldron over an oven flame until they have sufficiently mellowed that they can return to the normal life of a student. Koohii #1 Imagine tall children sitting round the fire toasting marsh-mellows. Koohii #2 The cram school (309) tortures its students - especially the tall and fat ones who need to grow up - over a fire until they mellow. (Note that here the keyword ´mellow´ only means to mature, ripen, or acquire skill; not the colloquial meaning of ´chill out´). Primitives mellow, receive, tall, top hat, mouth, child, children, round, nine, baseball, drop, oven-fire, barbecue 成熟(せいじゅく): maturity, ripeness 未熟(みじゅく): inexperience, unripeness, raw, unskilled, immature, inexperienced 熟語(じゅくご): idiom, idiomatic phrase, kanji compound Kunyomi: う.れる Onyomi: ジュク Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 熟れる (う.れる)
pavilion Details Story Dictionary 亭 pavilion Heisig's Think of all the pavilions at County Fairs or World Expos you have wandered into or seen advertised in the media, and you will no doubt see rising up among them the towering tall crowned nail (the crown being a revolving restaurant) - that architectural monstrosity that has become a symbol of science and technology at such events. Koohii #1 The Pavillion on crown street is the tallest I have ever seen. Koohii #2 The tallest Pavilion crowns the street. Primitives pavilion, tall, top hat, mouth, crown, street, nail, spike Kunyomi: Onyomi: テイ、チン Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	pavilion 亭 画数9 333 Details Story Dictionary 亭 pavilion Heisig's Think of all the pavilions at County Fairs or World Expos you have wandered into or seen advertised in the media, and you will no doubt see rising up among them the towering tall crowned nail (the crown being a revolving restaurant) - that architectural monstrosity that has become a symbol of science and technology at such events. Koohii #1 The Pavillion on crown street is the tallest I have ever seen. Koohii #2 The tallest Pavilion crowns the street. Primitives pavilion, tall, top hat, mouth, crown, street, nail, spike Kunyomi: Onyomi: テイ、チン Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
capital Details Story Dictionary 京 capital Heisig's When we think of a capital city today we think of tall skyscrapers dwarfing the endless swarms of little folk scurrying here and there about their business. Koohii #1 Tokyo, capital of Japan: tall buildings, small people (compared to the buildings). Koohii #2 The capital is where the powerful act formal wearing top hats, open their mouths, and get little done. Primitives capital, tall, top hat, mouth, small, little 帰京(ききょう): returning to Tokyo 上京(じょうきょう): proceeding to the capital (Tokyo) Kunyomi: みやこ Onyomi: キョウ、ケイ、キン Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:	capital 京 画数8 334 Details Story Dictionary 京 capital Heisig's When we think of a capital city today we think of tall skyscrapers dwarfing the endless swarms of little folk scurrying here and there about their business. Koohii #1 Tokyo, capital of Japan: tall buildings, small people (compared to the buildings). Koohii #2 The capital is where the powerful act formal wearing top hats, open their mouths, and get little done. Primitives capital, tall, top hat, mouth, small, little 帰京(ききょう): returning to Tokyo 上京(じょうきょう): proceeding to the capital (Tokyo) Kunyomi: みやこ Onyomi: キョウ、ケイ、キン Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:
refreshing Details Story Dictionary 涼 refreshing Heisig's Since few things are as refreshing on a warm day as a cool shower (the water), here we picture an entire capital city treating itself to one, and in full view of everyone. Koohii #1 When you´re a tourist in the capital during the heat of summer, finding a water fountain is oh, so refreshing. Koohii #2 The water from the capital of Japan, Tokyo, is so refreshing! Primitives refreshing, water droplets, water pistol capital, tall, top hat, mouth, small, little 涼む(すずむ): cool oneself, cool off, enjoy evening cool 涼しい(すずしい): cool, refreshing Kunyomi: すず.しい、すず.む、すず.やか、うす.い、ひや.す、まことに Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 涼しい (すず.しい), 涼む (すず.む)	refreshing 涼 画数11 335 Details Story Dictionary 涼 refreshing Heisig's Since few things are as refreshing on a warm day as a cool shower (the water), here we picture an entire capital city treating itself to one, and in full view of everyone. Koohii #1 When you´re a tourist in the capital during the heat of summer, finding a water fountain is oh, so refreshing. Koohii #2 The water from the capital of Japan, Tokyo, is so refreshing! Primitives refreshing, water droplets, water pistol capital, tall, top hat, mouth, small, little 涼む(すずむ): cool oneself, cool off, enjoy evening cool 涼しい(すずしい): cool, refreshing Kunyomi: すず.しい、すず.む、すず.やか、うす.い、ひや.す、まことに Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 涼しい (すず.しい), 涼む (すず.む)
scenery Details Story Dictionary 景 scenery My Story *Sun* over *the capital* makes for nice scenery. Koohii #1 Imaging the sun rising over the capital--classic postcard scenery. Koohii #2 Anyone who´s been to Kyoto doesn´t need to think too deeply into this Kanji! Imagine a sunny day in the old capital, and there´s no better scenery. Primitives scenery, sun, day, capital, tall, top hat, mouth, small, little 背景(はいけい): background, scenery, setting, circumstance 不景気(ふけいき): business recession, hard times, depression, gloom, sullenness, cheerlessness 景気(けいき): condition, state, business conditions, the times 光景(こうけい): scene, spectacle 風景(ふうけい): scenery 景色(けしき): scenery Kunyomi: Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	scenery 景 画数12 336 Details Story Dictionary 景 scenery My Story *Sun* over *the capital* makes for nice scenery. Koohii #1 Imaging the sun rising over the capital--classic postcard scenery. Koohii #2 Anyone who´s been to Kyoto doesn´t need to think too deeply into this Kanji! Imagine a sunny day in the old capital, and there´s no better scenery. Primitives scenery, sun, day, capital, tall, top hat, mouth, small, little 背景(はいけい): background, scenery, setting, circumstance 不景気(ふけいき): business recession, hard times, depression, gloom, sullenness, cheerlessness 景気(けいき): condition, state, business conditions, the times 光景(こうけい): scene, spectacle 風景(ふうけい): scenery 景色(けしき): scenery Kunyomi: Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
whale Details Story Dictionary 鯨 whale My Story A whale is like a {魚} except it is as big as the {京}. Koohii #1 If fish were cities, the whale would surely be the capital. Koohii #2 When the whale was first discovered it was the biggest fish people had ever seen. Stories exaggerated its size - people said it was as big as the entire capital city! Primitives whale, fish, bound up, rice field, brains, oven-fire, barbecue, capital, tall, top hat, mouth, small, little 捕鯨(ほげい): whaling, whale fishing Kunyomi: くじら Onyomi: ゲイ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鯨 (くじら)	whale 鯨 画数19 337 Details Story Dictionary 鯨 whale My Story A whale is like a {魚} except it is as big as the {京}. Koohii #1 If fish were cities, the whale would surely be the capital. Koohii #2 When the whale was first discovered it was the biggest fish people had ever seen. Stories exaggerated its size - people said it was as big as the entire capital city! Primitives whale, fish, bound up, rice field, brains, oven-fire, barbecue, capital, tall, top hat, mouth, small, little 捕鯨(ほげい): whaling, whale fishing Kunyomi: くじら Onyomi: ゲイ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鯨 (くじら)
cottage Details Story Dictionary 舎 cottage Heisig's A lidded crock with an umbrella overhead gives us a mixture of the modern and the nostalgic in this design for a cottage. Koohii #1 The cottage is so small - it has an umbrella for the roof; soil for the floor and room for only one mouth. Koohii #2 My vacation cottage is nothing but a hole in the ground covered by an umbrella. Primitives cottage, umbrella, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth 校舎(こうしゃ): school building 田舎(いなか): the country, country side Kunyomi: やど.る Onyomi: シャ、セキ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	cottage 舎 画数8 338 Details Story Dictionary 舎 cottage Heisig's A lidded crock with an umbrella overhead gives us a mixture of the modern and the nostalgic in this design for a cottage. Koohii #1 The cottage is so small - it has an umbrella for the roof; soil for the floor and room for only one mouth. Koohii #2 My vacation cottage is nothing but a hole in the ground covered by an umbrella. Primitives cottage, umbrella, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth 校舎(こうしゃ): school building 田舎(いなか): the country, country side Kunyomi: やど.る Onyomi: シャ、セキ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
circumference Details Story Dictionary 周 circumference Heisig's Look more closely at your lidded crock and you will see little ruler marks along its bottom edge. This is so you can use it to calculate the circumference of your motorcycle helmet: just begin at a fixed point and turn the lidded crock around and around, keeping it flush against the side of the helmet, until you come back to your starting point. If you kept track of how many turns and part-turns your lidded crock made, you now know the circumference. * As a primitive, this character can take the added significance of a lap. Koohii #1 If my LIDDED CROCK has the same CIRCUMFERENCE as my head, I like to use it as a HELMET. Koohii #2 You´re at a motorcycle store looking to buy a helmet. The only way to check the circumference of your head is to put increasingly larger lidded crocks on your head until one slips on just right. Now you know what size helmet to buy. Primitives circumference, glass hood, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth 周(しゅう): circuit, lap, circumference, vicinity, Chou (dynasty) 周期(しゅうき): cycle, period 円周(えんしゅう): circumference 周囲(しゅうい): circumference, surroundings, environs 周辺(しゅうへん): circumference, outskirts, environs, (computer) peripheral 周り(まわり): surroundings Kunyomi: まわ.り Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 周り (まわ.り)	circumference 周 画数8 339 Details Story Dictionary 周 circumference Heisig's Look more closely at your lidded crock and you will see little ruler marks along its bottom edge. This is so you can use it to calculate the circumference of your motorcycle helmet: just begin at a fixed point and turn the lidded crock around and around, keeping it flush against the side of the helmet, until you come back to your starting point. If you kept track of how many turns and part-turns your lidded crock made, you now know the circumference. * As a primitive, this character can take the added significance of a lap. Koohii #1 If my LIDDED CROCK has the same CIRCUMFERENCE as my head, I like to use it as a HELMET. Koohii #2 You´re at a motorcycle store looking to buy a helmet. The only way to check the circumference of your head is to put increasingly larger lidded crocks on your head until one slips on just right. Now you know what size helmet to buy. Primitives circumference, glass hood, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth 周(しゅう): circuit, lap, circumference, vicinity, Chou (dynasty) 周期(しゅうき): cycle, period 円周(えんしゅう): circumference 周囲(しゅうい): circumference, surroundings, environs 周辺(しゅうへん): circumference, outskirts, environs, (computer) peripheral 周り(まわり): surroundings Kunyomi: まわ.り Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 周り (まわ.り)
week Details Story Dictionary 週 week Heisig's Picture a circular road with 7 markers on it, one for each day of the week. When you have walked one complete lap on this road, you shall have completed one week. Koohii #1 Imagine a road built so well that it takes only a week to travel the circumference of the earth. Koohii #2 Actually the week is like a never ending road where we travel in a circle through the same seven days again and again, the circumference is always the same. circumference (#317) also means circuit or lap, so that also makes think about the rotations of the moon, sun and the earth -- all important for measuring all kinds of time periods. Primitives week, circumference, running track, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, road 隔週(かくしゅう): every other week 週間(しゅうかん): week, weekly 再来週(さらいしゅう): week after next 週(しゅう): week 先々週(せんせんしゅう): week before last さ来週(さらいしゅう): the week after next 今週(こんしゅう): this week 先週(せんしゅう): last week, the week before 毎週(まいしゅう): every week 来週(らいしゅう): next week Kunyomi: Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:	week 週 画数11 340 Details Story Dictionary 週 week Heisig's Picture a circular road with 7 markers on it, one for each day of the week. When you have walked one complete lap on this road, you shall have completed one week. Koohii #1 Imagine a road built so well that it takes only a week to travel the circumference of the earth. Koohii #2 Actually the week is like a never ending road where we travel in a circle through the same seven days again and again, the circumference is always the same. circumference (#317) also means circuit or lap, so that also makes think about the rotations of the moon, sun and the earth -- all important for measuring all kinds of time periods. Primitives week, circumference, running track, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, road 隔週(かくしゅう): every other week 週間(しゅうかん): week, weekly 再来週(さらいしゅう): week after next 週(しゅう): week 先々週(せんせんしゅう): week before last さ来週(さらいしゅう): the week after next 今週(こんしゅう): this week 先週(せんしゅう): last week, the week before 毎週(まいしゅう): every week 来週(らいしゅう): next week Kunyomi: Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:
gentleman Details Story Dictionary 士 gentleman Heisig's The shape of this kanji, slightly differing from that for soil by virtue of its shorter final stroke, hints at a broad-shouldered, slender-waisted warrior standing at attention. When feudalism collapsed, these warriors became Japan's gentlemen. * The primitive meaning reverts to the more colorful image of the samurai, Japan's warrior class. Koohii #1 What a handsome gentleman. Standing up so straight, and broad shoulders too!! He´s like a modern samurai! Koohii #2 A gentleman has broad shoulders and doesn´t soil himself. Primitives gentleman, gentleman, samurai 学士(がくし): university graduate 修士(しゅうし): Masters degree program 紳士(しんし): gentleman 同士(どうし): fellow, companion, comrade 兵士(へいし): soldier 博士(はかせ): doctorate, PhD 武士(ぶし): warrior, samurai Kunyomi: Onyomi: シ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	gentleman 士 画数3 341 Details Story Dictionary 士 gentleman Heisig's The shape of this kanji, slightly differing from that for soil by virtue of its shorter final stroke, hints at a broad-shouldered, slender-waisted warrior standing at attention. When feudalism collapsed, these warriors became Japan's gentlemen. * The primitive meaning reverts to the more colorful image of the samurai, Japan's warrior class. Koohii #1 What a handsome gentleman. Standing up so straight, and broad shoulders too!! He´s like a modern samurai! Koohii #2 A gentleman has broad shoulders and doesn´t soil himself. Primitives gentleman, gentleman, samurai 学士(がくし): university graduate 修士(しゅうし): Masters degree program 紳士(しんし): gentleman 同士(どうし): fellow, companion, comrade 兵士(へいし): soldier 博士(はかせ): doctorate, PhD 武士(ぶし): warrior, samurai Kunyomi: Onyomi: シ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"good luck Details Story Dictionary 吉 good luck Heisig's Here we see a samurai standing on a street with an open mouth, which people walk up to and look down deep inside of for good luck. * As a primitive, we shall take this shape to mean an aerosol can, from the mouth and the very tightly-fitting lid (note how it differs here from the lidded crock). Koohii #1 The samurai´s wife gives him a (uhum) before battle for good luck. Koohii #2 A true samurai gentleman will always mouth, ""Good luck"" to his opponents before a match. Primitives good luck, samurai, mouth 不吉(ふきつ): ominous, sinister, bad luck, ill omen, inauspiciousness Kunyomi: よし Onyomi: キチ、キツ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 吉日 (きちじつ), 吉例 (きちれい), 大吉 (だいきち)"	"good luck 吉 画数6 342 Details Story Dictionary 吉 good luck Heisig's Here we see a samurai standing on a street with an open mouth, which people walk up to and look down deep inside of for good luck. * As a primitive, we shall take this shape to mean an aerosol can, from the mouth and the very tightly-fitting lid (note how it differs here from the lidded crock). Koohii #1 The samurai´s wife gives him a (uhum) before battle for good luck. Koohii #2 A true samurai gentleman will always mouth, ""Good luck"" to his opponents before a match. Primitives good luck, samurai, mouth 不吉(ふきつ): ominous, sinister, bad luck, ill omen, inauspiciousness Kunyomi: よし Onyomi: キチ、キツ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 吉日 (きちじつ), 吉例 (きちれい), 大吉 (だいきち)"
robust Details Story Dictionary 壮 robust Heisig's Robust is seen as a turtle turned samurai. Koohii #1 Half of a turtle shell as a shield makes a samurai more robust. Koohii #2 The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles are robust gentlemen aren´t they? Primitives robust, turtle, samurai 壮大(そうだい): magnificent, grand, majestic, splendid Kunyomi: さかん Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	robust 壮 画数6 343 Details Story Dictionary 壮 robust Heisig's Robust is seen as a turtle turned samurai. Koohii #1 Half of a turtle shell as a shield makes a samurai more robust. Koohii #2 The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles are robust gentlemen aren´t they? Primitives robust, turtle, samurai 壮大(そうだい): magnificent, grand, majestic, splendid Kunyomi: さかん Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
villa Details Story Dictionary 荘 villa Heisig's The villa pictured here is filled with exotic flowers at every turn, and has a pair of turtle-samurai standing before its gates. Koohii #1 A villa is fancier (decorated with flowers) and more robust than the average. Koohii #2 The teenage mutant samurai turtles live in a villa with flowers on the roof so that the neighbours don´t get suspicious. Primitives villa, flowers, robust, turtle, samurai 別荘(べっそう): holiday house, villa Kunyomi: ほうき、おごそ.か Onyomi: ソウ、ショウ、チャン Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	villa 荘 画数9 344 Details Story Dictionary 荘 villa Heisig's The villa pictured here is filled with exotic flowers at every turn, and has a pair of turtle-samurai standing before its gates. Koohii #1 A villa is fancier (decorated with flowers) and more robust than the average. Koohii #2 The teenage mutant samurai turtles live in a villa with flowers on the roof so that the neighbours don´t get suspicious. Primitives villa, flowers, robust, turtle, samurai 別荘(べっそう): holiday house, villa Kunyomi: ほうき、おごそ.か Onyomi: ソウ、ショウ、チャン Lesson: 14 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"sell Details Story Dictionary 売 sell Heisig's A samurai, out of a job, is going door-to-door selling little windup crowns with human legs that run around on the floor looking like headless monarchs. Koohii #1 The samurai happened to find an extra large crown that he wore as a belt on his waist, just above his legs. I wonder if he will sell it to me? Koohii #2 A ""samurai"" will never sell his ""crown"" (king), even it meant having both his ""human legs"" chopped off! Primitives sell, samurai, paper punch, Miss World, crown, human legs 売り出し(うりだし): (bargain) sale 売り出す(うりだす): to put on sale, to market, to become popular 売れ行き(うれゆき): sales 小売(こうり): retail 前売り(まえうり): advance sale, booking 売上(うりあげ): amount sold, proceeds 売り切れ(うりきれ): sold out 売り切れる(うりきれる): be sold out 売れる(うれる): be sold 商売(しょうばい): trade, business, commerce, transaction, occupation 特売(とくばい): special sale 売店(ばいてん): shop, stand 売買(ばいばい): trade, buying and selling 発売(はつばい): sale 販売(はんばい): sale, selling, marketing 売り場(うりば): selling area 売る(うる): sell Kunyomi: う.る、う.れる Onyomi: バイ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 売る (う.る), 売れる (う.れる)"	"sell 売 画数7 345 Details Story Dictionary 売 sell Heisig's A samurai, out of a job, is going door-to-door selling little windup crowns with human legs that run around on the floor looking like headless monarchs. Koohii #1 The samurai happened to find an extra large crown that he wore as a belt on his waist, just above his legs. I wonder if he will sell it to me? Koohii #2 A ""samurai"" will never sell his ""crown"" (king), even it meant having both his ""human legs"" chopped off! Primitives sell, samurai, paper punch, Miss World, crown, human legs 売り出し(うりだし): (bargain) sale 売り出す(うりだす): to put on sale, to market, to become popular 売れ行き(うれゆき): sales 小売(こうり): retail 前売り(まえうり): advance sale, booking 売上(うりあげ): amount sold, proceeds 売り切れ(うりきれ): sold out 売り切れる(うりきれる): be sold out 売れる(うれる): be sold 商売(しょうばい): trade, business, commerce, transaction, occupation 特売(とくばい): special sale 売店(ばいてん): shop, stand 売買(ばいばい): trade, buying and selling 発売(はつばい): sale 販売(はんばい): sale, selling, marketing 売り場(うりば): selling area 売る(うる): sell Kunyomi: う.る、う.れる Onyomi: バイ Lesson: 14 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 売る (う.る), 売れる (う.れる)"
study Details Story Dictionary 学 study Heisig's The child in the little red schoolhouse is there for one reason only: to study. Anyone who has gone through the schooling system knows well enough that study is one thing and learning quite another again. In the kanji, too, the character for learning (Frame 616) has nothing to do with the schoolhouse. Koohii #1 In the school house there are kids always studying. (BTW, atomiton, this is NOT 字). Koohii #2 Children in schoolhouses are there to study, nothing else!!! Primitives study, schoolhouse, owl, crown, child 学芸(がくげい): arts and sciences, liberal arts 学士(がくし): university graduate 学説(がくせつ): theory 学歴(がくれき): academic background 休学(きゅうがく): temporary absence from school, suspension 共学(きょうがく): coeducation 工学(こうがく): engineering 考古学(こうこがく): archaeology 高等学校(こうとうがっこう): senior high school 修学(しゅうがく): learning 退学(たいがく): dropping out of school 法学(ほうがく): law, jurisprudence 化学(かがく): chemistry 学(がく): learning, scholarship, erudition, knowledge 学者(がくしゃ): scholar 学習(がくしゅう): study, learning 学術(がくじゅつ): science, learning, scholarship 学年(がくねん): year in school, grade in school 学部(がくぶ): department of a university, undergraduate 学問(がくもん): scholarship, study, learning 学力(がくりょく): scholarship, knowledge, literary ability 学科(がっか): study subject, course of study 学会(がっかい): scientific society, academic meeting 学期(がっき): school term 学級(がっきゅう): grade in school 見学(けんがく): inspection, study by observation, field trip 語学(ごがく): language study 在学(ざいがく): (enrolled) in school 自然科学(しぜんかがく): natural science 社会科学(しゃかいかがく): social science 奨学金(しょうがくきん): scholarship 小学生(しょうがくせい): grade school student 進学(しんがく): going on to university 人文科学(じんぶんかがく): social sciences, humanities 大学院(だいがくいん): graduate school 中学(ちゅうがく): middle school, junior high school 通学(つうがく): commuting to school 哲学(てつがく): philosophy 学ぶ(まなぶ): learn, study (in depth) 留学(りゅうがく): studying abroad 医学(いがく): medical science 科学(かがく): science 小学校(しょうがっこう): primary school 数学(すうがく): mathematics 大学生(だいがくせい): university student 中学校(ちゅうがっこう): junior high school 入学(にゅうがく): enter a school 文学(ぶんがく): literature 学生(がくせい): student 学校(がっこう): school 大学(だいがく): university 留学生(りゅうがくせい): overseas student Kunyomi: まな.ぶ Onyomi: ガク Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 学ぶ (まな.ぶ)	study 学 画数8 346 Details Story Dictionary 学 study Heisig's The child in the little red schoolhouse is there for one reason only: to study. Anyone who has gone through the schooling system knows well enough that study is one thing and learning quite another again. In the kanji, too, the character for learning (Frame 616) has nothing to do with the schoolhouse. Koohii #1 In the school house there are kids always studying. (BTW, atomiton, this is NOT 字). Koohii #2 Children in schoolhouses are there to study, nothing else!!! Primitives study, schoolhouse, owl, crown, child 学芸(がくげい): arts and sciences, liberal arts 学士(がくし): university graduate 学説(がくせつ): theory 学歴(がくれき): academic background 休学(きゅうがく): temporary absence from school, suspension 共学(きょうがく): coeducation 工学(こうがく): engineering 考古学(こうこがく): archaeology 高等学校(こうとうがっこう): senior high school 修学(しゅうがく): learning 退学(たいがく): dropping out of school 法学(ほうがく): law, jurisprudence 化学(かがく): chemistry 学(がく): learning, scholarship, erudition, knowledge 学者(がくしゃ): scholar 学習(がくしゅう): study, learning 学術(がくじゅつ): science, learning, scholarship 学年(がくねん): year in school, grade in school 学部(がくぶ): department of a university, undergraduate 学問(がくもん): scholarship, study, learning 学力(がくりょく): scholarship, knowledge, literary ability 学科(がっか): study subject, course of study 学会(がっかい): scientific society, academic meeting 学期(がっき): school term 学級(がっきゅう): grade in school 見学(けんがく): inspection, study by observation, field trip 語学(ごがく): language study 在学(ざいがく): (enrolled) in school 自然科学(しぜんかがく): natural science 社会科学(しゃかいかがく): social science 奨学金(しょうがくきん): scholarship 小学生(しょうがくせい): grade school student 進学(しんがく): going on to university 人文科学(じんぶんかがく): social sciences, humanities 大学院(だいがくいん): graduate school 中学(ちゅうがく): middle school, junior high school 通学(つうがく): commuting to school 哲学(てつがく): philosophy 学ぶ(まなぶ): learn, study (in depth) 留学(りゅうがく): studying abroad 医学(いがく): medical science 科学(かがく): science 小学校(しょうがっこう): primary school 数学(すうがく): mathematics 大学生(だいがくせい): university student 中学校(ちゅうがっこう): junior high school 入学(にゅうがく): enter a school 文学(ぶんがく): literature 学生(がくせい): student 学校(がっこう): school 大学(だいがく): university 留学生(りゅうがくせい): overseas student Kunyomi: まな.ぶ Onyomi: ガク Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 学ぶ (まな.ぶ)
memorize Details Story Dictionary 覚 memorize My Story You'll never memorize all the kanji if I keep seeing with that punk hair cut Koohii #1 In a schoolhouse in class: 1) you see something on the blackboard, then 2) you memorize it. Koohii #2 You´ll never memorize all the kanji by seeing them in a school house. You need Heisig and RtK! Primitives memorize, schoolhouse, owl, crown, see, telescope, eye, human legs 覚え(おぼえ): memory, sense, experience 錯覚(さっかく): optical illusion, hallucination 視覚(しかく): sense of sight, vision 自覚(じかく): self-conscious 聴覚(ちょうかく): the sense of hearing 味覚(みかく): taste, palate, sense of taste 目覚しい(めざましい): brilliant, splendid, striking, remarkable 目覚める(めざめる): to wake up 覚悟(かくご): resolution, resignation, readiness, preparedness 感覚(かんかく): sense, sensation 覚ます(さます): awaken, disabuse, sober up 覚める(さめる): wake, wake up 目覚し(めざまし): alarm clock (abbreviation) 覚える(おぼえる): remember, memorize Kunyomi: おぼ.える、さ.ます、さ.める、さと.る Onyomi: カク Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 覚える (おぼ.える), 覚ます (さ.ます), 覚める (さ.める)	memorize 覚 画数12 347 Details Story Dictionary 覚 memorize My Story You'll never memorize all the kanji if I keep seeing with that punk hair cut Koohii #1 In a schoolhouse in class: 1) you see something on the blackboard, then 2) you memorize it. Koohii #2 You´ll never memorize all the kanji by seeing them in a school house. You need Heisig and RtK! Primitives memorize, schoolhouse, owl, crown, see, telescope, eye, human legs 覚え(おぼえ): memory, sense, experience 錯覚(さっかく): optical illusion, hallucination 視覚(しかく): sense of sight, vision 自覚(じかく): self-conscious 聴覚(ちょうかく): the sense of hearing 味覚(みかく): taste, palate, sense of taste 目覚しい(めざましい): brilliant, splendid, striking, remarkable 目覚める(めざめる): to wake up 覚悟(かくご): resolution, resignation, readiness, preparedness 感覚(かんかく): sense, sensation 覚ます(さます): awaken, disabuse, sober up 覚める(さめる): wake, wake up 目覚し(めざまし): alarm clock (abbreviation) 覚える(おぼえる): remember, memorize Kunyomi: おぼ.える、さ.ます、さ.める、さと.る Onyomi: カク Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 覚える (おぼ.える), 覚ます (さ.ます), 覚める (さ.める)
flourish Details Story Dictionary 栄 flourish Heisig's The botanical connotations of the word flourish (to bud and burst into bloom, much as a tree does) are part of the ideal of the schoolhouse as well. Koohii #1 The TREES FLOURISH in the CLASSROOM, a little too much perhaps, there´s no room for the students any more. Koohii #2 Students are like young trees. They tend to flourish in the schoolhouse. Primitives flourish, schoolhouse, owl, crown, tree, wood 栄える(さかえる): to prosper, to flourish 繁栄(はんえい): prospering, prosperity, thriving, flourishing 栄養(えいよう): nutrition, nourishment Kunyomi: さか.える、は.え、-ば.え、は.える、え Onyomi: エイ、ヨウ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 栄える (さか.える), 栄え (は.え), 栄える (は.える)	flourish 栄 画数9 348 Details Story Dictionary 栄 flourish Heisig's The botanical connotations of the word flourish (to bud and burst into bloom, much as a tree does) are part of the ideal of the schoolhouse as well. Koohii #1 The TREES FLOURISH in the CLASSROOM, a little too much perhaps, there´s no room for the students any more. Koohii #2 Students are like young trees. They tend to flourish in the schoolhouse. Primitives flourish, schoolhouse, owl, crown, tree, wood 栄える(さかえる): to prosper, to flourish 繁栄(はんえい): prospering, prosperity, thriving, flourishing 栄養(えいよう): nutrition, nourishment Kunyomi: さか.える、は.え、-ば.え、は.える、え Onyomi: エイ、ヨウ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 栄える (さか.える), 栄え (は.え), 栄える (は.える)
write Details Story Dictionary 書 write Heisig's The sage talks rapidly with his tongue wagging in his mouth, while the brush of the scribe runs apace to write down the master 'swords. Koohii #1 Make sure you practice writing kanji with a brush every day before the sun goes down. Koohii #2 The calligrapher had a peculiar habit: when using her brush to write, she would stick out her tongue, just slightly. Primitives write, brush, tongue wagging, sun, day 書き取り(かきとり): dictation 書き取る(かきとる): to write down, to take dictation, to take notes 箇条書き(かじょうがき): itemized form, itemization 願書(がんしょ): written application or petition 原書(げんしょ): original document 書評(しょひょう): book review 聖書(せいしょ): Bible, scriptures 著書(ちょしょ): literary work, book 秘書(ひしょ): (private) secretary 文書(ぶんしょ): document, writing, letter, note, records, archives 書留(かきとめ): writing down, putting on record 教科書(きょうかしょ): text book 下書き(したがき): rough copy, draft 書斎(しょさい): study 書籍(しょせき): book, publication 書店(しょてん): bookstore 書道(しょどう): calligraphy 書物(しょもつ): books 書類(しょるい): documents, official papers 清書(せいしょ): clean copy 投書(とうしょ): letter to the editor, letter from a reader, contribution 読書(どくしょ): reading 図書(としょ): books 書く(かく): write 辞書(じしょ): dictionary, lexicon 図書館(としょかん): library 葉書(はがき): postcard Kunyomi: か.く、-が.き、-がき Onyomi: ショ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 書く (か.く)	write 書 画数10 349 Details Story Dictionary 書 write Heisig's The sage talks rapidly with his tongue wagging in his mouth, while the brush of the scribe runs apace to write down the master 'swords. Koohii #1 Make sure you practice writing kanji with a brush every day before the sun goes down. Koohii #2 The calligrapher had a peculiar habit: when using her brush to write, she would stick out her tongue, just slightly. Primitives write, brush, tongue wagging, sun, day 書き取り(かきとり): dictation 書き取る(かきとる): to write down, to take dictation, to take notes 箇条書き(かじょうがき): itemized form, itemization 願書(がんしょ): written application or petition 原書(げんしょ): original document 書評(しょひょう): book review 聖書(せいしょ): Bible, scriptures 著書(ちょしょ): literary work, book 秘書(ひしょ): (private) secretary 文書(ぶんしょ): document, writing, letter, note, records, archives 書留(かきとめ): writing down, putting on record 教科書(きょうかしょ): text book 下書き(したがき): rough copy, draft 書斎(しょさい): study 書籍(しょせき): book, publication 書店(しょてん): bookstore 書道(しょどう): calligraphy 書物(しょもつ): books 書類(しょるい): documents, official papers 清書(せいしょ): clean copy 投書(とうしょ): letter to the editor, letter from a reader, contribution 読書(どくしょ): reading 図書(としょ): books 書く(かく): write 辞書(じしょ): dictionary, lexicon 図書館(としょかん): library 葉書(はがき): postcard Kunyomi: か.く、-が.き、-がき Onyomi: ショ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 書く (か.く)
haven Details Story Dictionary 津 haven Heisig's Seeing the tiny boats of poor mortals tossed about in a stormy sea like so many corks, the All-Merciful took its brush and drew little inlets of water where the hapless creatures might seek shelter. And so it is that we have havens. Koohii #1 A brush laying in dirty water is a haven for bacteria. Koohii #2 The haven for a BRUSH is in WATER.. Otherwise they get dry and withered and cant be used?! Primitives haven, water, water droplets, water pistol, brush 津波(つなみ): tsunami, tidal wave Kunyomi: つ Onyomi: シン Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 津 (つ)	haven 津 画数9 350 Details Story Dictionary 津 haven Heisig's Seeing the tiny boats of poor mortals tossed about in a stormy sea like so many corks, the All-Merciful took its brush and drew little inlets of water where the hapless creatures might seek shelter. And so it is that we have havens. Koohii #1 A brush laying in dirty water is a haven for bacteria. Koohii #2 The haven for a BRUSH is in WATER.. Otherwise they get dry and withered and cant be used?! Primitives haven, water, water droplets, water pistol, brush 津波(つなみ): tsunami, tidal wave Kunyomi: つ Onyomi: シン Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 津 (つ)
"breed Details Story Dictionary 牧 breed Heisig's When it is time to breed new cattle, the bull is usually willing but the cow is often not. Thus the taskmaster to the right forces the cow into a compromising position, so to speak, so that she and her mate can breed. Koohii #1 Imagine a taskmaster giving a cow the command to ""start breeding, and start doing it now!"", except that the cow takes his advice a bit too literally and starts chasing the taskmaster to carry out this command! instead of finding another cow to breed with. Hence, you see the taskmaster running to the right, trying to stay ahead of the cow. Koohii #2 Hint: This is the kanji from which taskmaster is derived. Actually, this kanji has nothing to do with breed, and a lot to do with pastures and shepherds (also for cowboys, japanese and spanish don´t differenciate between animals). Think of a cowboy (taskmaster) who brings his cows to the pasture. Primitives breed, cow, taskmaster 牧師(ぼくし): pastor, minister, clergyman 遊牧(ゆうぼく): nomadism 牧場(ぼくじょう): farm (livestock), pasture land, meadow, grazing land 牧畜(ぼくちく): stock-farming Kunyomi: まき Onyomi: ボク Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 牧 (まき)"	"breed 牧 画数8 351 Details Story Dictionary 牧 breed Heisig's When it is time to breed new cattle, the bull is usually willing but the cow is often not. Thus the taskmaster to the right forces the cow into a compromising position, so to speak, so that she and her mate can breed. Koohii #1 Imagine a taskmaster giving a cow the command to ""start breeding, and start doing it now!"", except that the cow takes his advice a bit too literally and starts chasing the taskmaster to carry out this command! instead of finding another cow to breed with. Hence, you see the taskmaster running to the right, trying to stay ahead of the cow. Koohii #2 Hint: This is the kanji from which taskmaster is derived. Actually, this kanji has nothing to do with breed, and a lot to do with pastures and shepherds (also for cowboys, japanese and spanish don´t differenciate between animals). Think of a cowboy (taskmaster) who brings his cows to the pasture. Primitives breed, cow, taskmaster 牧師(ぼくし): pastor, minister, clergyman 遊牧(ゆうぼく): nomadism 牧場(ぼくじょう): farm (livestock), pasture land, meadow, grazing land 牧畜(ぼくちく): stock-farming Kunyomi: まき Onyomi: ボク Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 牧 (まき)"
aggression Details Story Dictionary 攻 aggression Heisig's The special craft of successful taskmasters is their ability to remain constantly on the aggressive, never allowing their underlings a moment to ponder a counter-aggression of their own. Koohii #1 Aggression is the craft of a good dominatrix. Koohii #2 AGGRESSION is a well-honed craft for any decent taskmaster. Primitives aggression, craft, taskmaster 攻め(せめ): attack, offence 攻撃(こうげき): attack, strike, offensive, criticism, censure 攻める(せめる): attack, assault 専攻(せんこう): major subject, special study Kunyomi: せ.める Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 攻める (せ.める)	aggression 攻 画数7 352 Details Story Dictionary 攻 aggression Heisig's The special craft of successful taskmasters is their ability to remain constantly on the aggressive, never allowing their underlings a moment to ponder a counter-aggression of their own. Koohii #1 Aggression is the craft of a good dominatrix. Koohii #2 AGGRESSION is a well-honed craft for any decent taskmaster. Primitives aggression, craft, taskmaster 攻め(せめ): attack, offence 攻撃(こうげき): attack, strike, offensive, criticism, censure 攻める(せめる): attack, assault 専攻(せんこう): major subject, special study Kunyomi: せ.める Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 攻める (せ.める)
failure Details Story Dictionary 敗 failure Heisig's The taskmaster is acknowledging the failure of a clam to make the grade in some marine school or other. Koohii #1 If you end up in failure, you give money to the taskmaster to train you. Koohii #2 The shell who was defeated before (defeat (#63)) is being chastised by the taskmaster for his failure to win. Primitives failure, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, taskmaster 一敗(いっぱい): one defeat 敗戦(はいせん): defeat, losing a war 腐敗(ふはい): decay, depravity 勝敗(しょうはい): victory or defeat, issue (of battle) 失敗(しっぱい): failure, fail Kunyomi: やぶ.れる Onyomi: ハイ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 敗れる (やぶ.れる)	failure 敗 画数11 353 Details Story Dictionary 敗 failure Heisig's The taskmaster is acknowledging the failure of a clam to make the grade in some marine school or other. Koohii #1 If you end up in failure, you give money to the taskmaster to train you. Koohii #2 The shell who was defeated before (defeat (#63)) is being chastised by the taskmaster for his failure to win. Primitives failure, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, taskmaster 一敗(いっぱい): one defeat 敗戦(はいせん): defeat, losing a war 腐敗(ふはい): decay, depravity 勝敗(しょうはい): victory or defeat, issue (of battle) 失敗(しっぱい): failure, fail Kunyomi: やぶ.れる Onyomi: ハイ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 敗れる (やぶ.れる)
a sheet of Details Story Dictionary 枚 a sheet of Heisig's English counts thin, flat objects, like bed linen and paper, in sheets. The kanji does this with a taskmaster whipping a tree into producing sheets against its will. Koohii #1 The taskmaster is a strict bathroom monitor who hands out only one sheet of really rough, splintery toilet paper per person. You can see the wood fibers. Koohii #2 This taskmaster is the bathroom nazi: he counts how many sheets of toilet paper and tissue you use, and then tells you what % of a tree you just killed. Primitives sheet of…, tree, wood, taskmaster 枚(まい): counter for flat objects (e.g. sheets of paper) 枚数(まいすう): the number of flat things Kunyomi: Onyomi: マイ、バイ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	a sheet of 枚 画数8 354 Details Story Dictionary 枚 a sheet of Heisig's English counts thin, flat objects, like bed linen and paper, in sheets. The kanji does this with a taskmaster whipping a tree into producing sheets against its will. Koohii #1 The taskmaster is a strict bathroom monitor who hands out only one sheet of really rough, splintery toilet paper per person. You can see the wood fibers. Koohii #2 This taskmaster is the bathroom nazi: he counts how many sheets of toilet paper and tissue you use, and then tells you what % of a tree you just killed. Primitives sheet of…, tree, wood, taskmaster 枚(まい): counter for flat objects (e.g. sheets of paper) 枚数(まいすう): the number of flat things Kunyomi: Onyomi: マイ、バイ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
happenstance / accident Details Story Dictionary 故 happenstance / accident My Story The *director* is so *old*, he keeps having #accidents# on set. Koohii #1 An OLD TASKMASTER is no happenstance (coincidence). The older you get the more rigid in your ways. Koohii #2 Need to disambiguate from enemy (#443) as it´s easy to mix up antique and old here. Let´s think of an accidental president -- he is an old taskmaster who has managed to win the election by happenstance . Primitives happenstance, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth, taskmaster 故(こ): the late (deceased) 故人(こじん): the deceased, old friend 其れ故(それゆえ): therefore, for that reason, so 何故(なぜ): why, how 故郷(こきょう): home town, birthplace, old or historic village 故障(こしょう): breakdown 事故(じこ): accident Kunyomi: ゆえ、ふる.い、もと Onyomi: コ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 故 (ゆえ)	happenstance / accident 故 画数9 355 Details Story Dictionary 故 happenstance / accident My Story The *director* is so *old*, he keeps having #accidents# on set. Koohii #1 An OLD TASKMASTER is no happenstance (coincidence). The older you get the more rigid in your ways. Koohii #2 Need to disambiguate from enemy (#443) as it´s easy to mix up antique and old here. Let´s think of an accidental president -- he is an old taskmaster who has managed to win the election by happenstance . Primitives happenstance, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth, taskmaster 故(こ): the late (deceased) 故人(こじん): the deceased, old friend 其れ故(それゆえ): therefore, for that reason, so 何故(なぜ): why, how 故郷(こきょう): home town, birthplace, old or historic village 故障(こしょう): breakdown 事故(じこ): accident Kunyomi: ゆえ、ふる.い、もと Onyomi: コ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 故 (ゆえ)
"awe Details Story Dictionary 敬 awe Heisig's Standing in awe of someone, you get self-conscious and may try to speak in flowery phrases out of veneration or fear. The taskmaster at the right is drilling you in the practice of your ""honorifics."" Koohii #1 The flowery phrases of the schoolmaster held the students in awe. Koohii #2 敬 【けい】 (n) reverence; respect. 敬語 【けいご】 (n) honorific; term of respect; (P) STORY: The TASKMASTER demands RESPECT. If you don´t talk to him in HONORIFICS and FLOWERY PHRASES you will be sorry. Primitives awe, flowers, phrase, bound up, mouth, taskmaster 敬具(けいぐ): Sincerely yours 敬う(うやまう): show respect, to honour 敬意(けいい): respect, honour 敬語(けいご): honorific, term of respect 尊敬(そんけい): respect, esteem, reverence, honour Kunyomi: うやま.う Onyomi: ケイ、キョウ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 敬う (うやま.う)"	"awe 敬 画数12 356 Details Story Dictionary 敬 awe Heisig's Standing in awe of someone, you get self-conscious and may try to speak in flowery phrases out of veneration or fear. The taskmaster at the right is drilling you in the practice of your ""honorifics."" Koohii #1 The flowery phrases of the schoolmaster held the students in awe. Koohii #2 敬 【けい】 (n) reverence; respect. 敬語 【けいご】 (n) honorific; term of respect; (P) STORY: The TASKMASTER demands RESPECT. If you don´t talk to him in HONORIFICS and FLOWERY PHRASES you will be sorry. Primitives awe, flowers, phrase, bound up, mouth, taskmaster 敬具(けいぐ): Sincerely yours 敬う(うやまう): show respect, to honour 敬意(けいい): respect, honour 敬語(けいご): honorific, term of respect 尊敬(そんけい): respect, esteem, reverence, honour Kunyomi: うやま.う Onyomi: ケイ、キョウ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 敬う (うやま.う)"
say Details Story Dictionary 言 say Heisig's Of all the things we can do with our mouths, speech is the one that requires the greatest distinctness and clarity. Hence the kanji for say has four little sound-waves, indicating the complexity of the achievement. * This kanji, which appears often as a primitive, can mean saying, speech, or words, depending on which is most useful. Koohii #1 A pictogram of someone saying a four letter word from their mouth after the censors have gotten a hold of it. Koohii #2 This is simple a pictogram of a mouth SAYing something. The lines are soundwaves. No need to complicate it. Primitives say, words, keitai, mouth 言い訳(いいわけ): excuse, explanation 一言(いちげん): single word 片言(かたこと): a smattering, talk like a baby, speak haltingly 予言(かねごと): prediction, promise, prognostication 言論(げんろん): discussion 言伝(ことづて): declaration, hearsay 証言(しょうげん): evidence, testimony 助言(じょげん): advice, suggestion 宣言(せんげん): declaration, proclamation, announcement 断言(だんげん): declaration, affirmation 伝言(つてごと): verbal message, rumor, word 発言(はつげん): utterance, speech, proposal 無言(むごん): silence 言い出す(いいだす): start talking, propose, suggest, break the ice 言い付ける(いいつける): tell, tell on (someone), to order, to charge, to direct 言わば(いわば): so to speak, so to call it, as it were 言語(げんご): language 言付ける(ことづける): send word, send a message 言葉遣い(ことばづかい): speech, expression, wording 一言(ひとこと): single word 独り言(ひとりごと): soliloquy, monologue, speaking to oneself 方言(ほうげん): dialect 言う(いう): to say 言葉(ことば): word(s), phrase, language, speech Kunyomi: い.う、こと Onyomi: ゲン、ゴン Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 言行 (げんこう), 言論 (げんろん), 宣言 (せんげん), 言う (い.う), 言 (こと)	say 言 画数7 357 Details Story Dictionary 言 say Heisig's Of all the things we can do with our mouths, speech is the one that requires the greatest distinctness and clarity. Hence the kanji for say has four little sound-waves, indicating the complexity of the achievement. * This kanji, which appears often as a primitive, can mean saying, speech, or words, depending on which is most useful. Koohii #1 A pictogram of someone saying a four letter word from their mouth after the censors have gotten a hold of it. Koohii #2 This is simple a pictogram of a mouth SAYing something. The lines are soundwaves. No need to complicate it. Primitives say, words, keitai, mouth 言い訳(いいわけ): excuse, explanation 一言(いちげん): single word 片言(かたこと): a smattering, talk like a baby, speak haltingly 予言(かねごと): prediction, promise, prognostication 言論(げんろん): discussion 言伝(ことづて): declaration, hearsay 証言(しょうげん): evidence, testimony 助言(じょげん): advice, suggestion 宣言(せんげん): declaration, proclamation, announcement 断言(だんげん): declaration, affirmation 伝言(つてごと): verbal message, rumor, word 発言(はつげん): utterance, speech, proposal 無言(むごん): silence 言い出す(いいだす): start talking, propose, suggest, break the ice 言い付ける(いいつける): tell, tell on (someone), to order, to charge, to direct 言わば(いわば): so to speak, so to call it, as it were 言語(げんご): language 言付ける(ことづける): send word, send a message 言葉遣い(ことばづかい): speech, expression, wording 一言(ひとこと): single word 独り言(ひとりごと): soliloquy, monologue, speaking to oneself 方言(ほうげん): dialect 言う(いう): to say 言葉(ことば): word(s), phrase, language, speech Kunyomi: い.う、こと Onyomi: ゲン、ゴン Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 言行 (げんこう), 言論 (げんろん), 宣言 (せんげん), 言う (い.う), 言 (こと)
admonish Details Story Dictionary 警 admonish Heisig's Here you have a perfect example of how an apparently impossible snarl of strokes becomes a snap to learn once you know its elements. The idea of being admonished for something already sets up a superior-inferior relationship between you and the person you are supposed to stand in awe of. While you are restricted to answering in honorifics, the superior can use straightforward and ordinary words. Koohii #1 To admonish is to enforce awe by means of words. Koohii #2 Watch in awe as mom admonishes the rude clerk with words that you´ve never heard her use before. Primitives admonish, awe, flowers, phrase, bound up, mouth, taskmaster, say, words, keitai, mouth, mouth2 警戒(けいかい): warning, admonition, vigilance 警部(けいぶ): police inspector 警告(けいこく): warning, advice 警備(けいび): defense, guard, policing, security 警官(けいかん): policeman 警察(けいさつ): police Kunyomi: いまし.める Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	admonish 警 画数19 358 Details Story Dictionary 警 admonish Heisig's Here you have a perfect example of how an apparently impossible snarl of strokes becomes a snap to learn once you know its elements. The idea of being admonished for something already sets up a superior-inferior relationship between you and the person you are supposed to stand in awe of. While you are restricted to answering in honorifics, the superior can use straightforward and ordinary words. Koohii #1 To admonish is to enforce awe by means of words. Koohii #2 Watch in awe as mom admonishes the rude clerk with words that you´ve never heard her use before. Primitives admonish, awe, flowers, phrase, bound up, mouth, taskmaster, say, words, keitai, mouth, mouth2 警戒(けいかい): warning, admonition, vigilance 警部(けいぶ): police inspector 警告(けいこく): warning, advice 警備(けいび): defense, guard, policing, security 警官(けいかん): policeman 警察(けいさつ): police Kunyomi: いまし.める Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
plot Details Story Dictionary 計 plot Heisig's Words and a meter's needle combine to form the sense of plot: to talk over plans and to calculate a course of action. Koohii #1 A plot is a summary of a book that can be given in ten words. Koohii #2 Say-ten´s (satan´s) evil plot. Primitives plot, say, words, keitai, mouth, ten, needle 家計(かけい): household economy, family finances 計器(けいき): meter, gauge 集計(しゅうけい): totalization, aggregate 生計(せいけい): livelihood, living 計る(はかる): to measure, to weigh, to survey, to time (sound gauge estimate) 会計(かいけい): account, finance, accountant, treasurer, paymaster, reckoning, bill 計(けい): plan 計算(けいさん): calculation, reckoning 合計(ごうけい): sum total, total amount 設計(せっけい): plan, design 統計(とうけい): statistics 余計(よけい): too much, unnecessary, abundance, surplus, excess 計画(けいかく): plan 時計(とけい): watch, clock Kunyomi: はか.る、はか.らう Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 計らう (はか.らう), 計る (はか.る)	plot 計 画数9 359 Details Story Dictionary 計 plot Heisig's Words and a meter's needle combine to form the sense of plot: to talk over plans and to calculate a course of action. Koohii #1 A plot is a summary of a book that can be given in ten words. Koohii #2 Say-ten´s (satan´s) evil plot. Primitives plot, say, words, keitai, mouth, ten, needle 家計(かけい): household economy, family finances 計器(けいき): meter, gauge 集計(しゅうけい): totalization, aggregate 生計(せいけい): livelihood, living 計る(はかる): to measure, to weigh, to survey, to time (sound gauge estimate) 会計(かいけい): account, finance, accountant, treasurer, paymaster, reckoning, bill 計(けい): plan 計算(けいさん): calculation, reckoning 合計(ごうけい): sum total, total amount 設計(せっけい): plan, design 統計(とうけい): statistics 余計(よけい): too much, unnecessary, abundance, surplus, excess 計画(けいかく): plan 時計(とけい): watch, clock Kunyomi: はか.る、はか.らう Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 計らう (はか.らう), 計る (はか.る)
elucidate Details Story Dictionary 詮 elucidate Heisig's Think of elucidating as presenting something in whole words, as distinct from broken fragmented sentences. Koohii #1 Words that tell you the results of the whole story really elucidate. Koohii #2 Elucidate me. Tell me, in your own words, the whole story. Primitives elucidate, say, words, keitai, mouth, whole, umbrella, king, jewel, ball Kunyomi: せん.ずる、かい、あき.らか Onyomi: セン Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	elucidate 詮 画数13 360 Details Story Dictionary 詮 elucidate Heisig's Think of elucidating as presenting something in whole words, as distinct from broken fragmented sentences. Koohii #1 Words that tell you the results of the whole story really elucidate. Koohii #2 Elucidate me. Tell me, in your own words, the whole story. Primitives elucidate, say, words, keitai, mouth, whole, umbrella, king, jewel, ball Kunyomi: せん.ずる、かい、あき.らか Onyomi: セン Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
prison Details Story Dictionary 獄 prison Heisig's Although we did not make note of it at the time, the kanji for dog is also a low-grade term for a spy. And later (Frame 1517) we will meet another association of criminals with dogs. The prison here depicts a pack of wild dogs (the long-timers and hardened criminals) into which the poor little chihuahua (first offender) has been cast. The only thing he has to protect himself against the pack are his shrill and frightened words. Koohii #1 The wild dog family visits their cousin in prison. They exchange words over the interphone at the visiting booth. Koohii #2 The only thing keeping the new chihuahua inmate from being ´initiated´ by the pack of wild dogs were his quick words in prison. Primitives prison, pack of wild dogs, say, words, keitai, mouth, chihuahua, dog, large, drop 地獄(じごく): hell Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゴク Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	prison 獄 画数14 361 Details Story Dictionary 獄 prison Heisig's Although we did not make note of it at the time, the kanji for dog is also a low-grade term for a spy. And later (Frame 1517) we will meet another association of criminals with dogs. The prison here depicts a pack of wild dogs (the long-timers and hardened criminals) into which the poor little chihuahua (first offender) has been cast. The only thing he has to protect himself against the pack are his shrill and frightened words. Koohii #1 The wild dog family visits their cousin in prison. They exchange words over the interphone at the visiting booth. Koohii #2 The only thing keeping the new chihuahua inmate from being ´initiated´ by the pack of wild dogs were his quick words in prison. Primitives prison, pack of wild dogs, say, words, keitai, mouth, chihuahua, dog, large, drop 地獄(じごく): hell Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゴク Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"revise Details Story Dictionary 訂 revise Heisig's After completing the first draft, you revise it by nailing down your words and ""hammering"" them into shape. Koohii #1 Revise, revise and revise until you have all the words nailed down. Koohii #2 Remember how Martin Luther revised the words of the catholic church and nailed his 95 Theses at the door of the church in Wittenberg? Primitives revise, say, words, keitai, mouth, street, nail, spike 改訂(かいてい): revision 訂正(ていせい): correction, revision Kunyomi: Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"revise 訂 画数9 362 Details Story Dictionary 訂 revise Heisig's After completing the first draft, you revise it by nailing down your words and ""hammering"" them into shape. Koohii #1 Revise, revise and revise until you have all the words nailed down. Koohii #2 Remember how Martin Luther revised the words of the catholic church and nailed his 95 Theses at the door of the church in Wittenberg? Primitives revise, say, words, keitai, mouth, street, nail, spike 改訂(かいてい): revision 訂正(ていせい): correction, revision Kunyomi: Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
obituary Details Story Dictionary 訃 obituary Heisig's The words of this obituary work like a magic wand, conjuring up the desceased. Koohii #1 Obituary. As a famous man lay dying, the media were already preparing the words of his obituary until a magician, with a wave of his wand, restored the man back to health. Koohii #2 In the Harry Potter world, obituary's are magical. If you wave your wand over them you can hear the person's last words. Creepy! Kunyomi: しらせ Onyomi: フ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	obituary 訃 画数9 363 Details Story Dictionary 訃 obituary Heisig's The words of this obituary work like a magic wand, conjuring up the desceased. Koohii #1 Obituary. As a famous man lay dying, the media were already preparing the words of his obituary until a magician, with a wave of his wand, restored the man back to health. Koohii #2 In the Harry Potter world, obituary's are magical. If you wave your wand over them you can hear the person's last words. Creepy! Kunyomi: しらせ Onyomi: フ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
"chastise Details Story Dictionary 討 chastise Heisig's Words spoken to chastise us stick to us like glue in a way no other words can. Koohii #1 I said some bad words, and my mother chastised me by washing my mouth out with glue instead of soap! Koohii #2 In Colonial New England, people who committed adultery had words glued to them. A famous example is the ""A"" worn by Hester Prynn for committing adultery (i.e., not being chaste). In this way, words glued to you are supposed to chastise you and prevent further breaches of chastity. Primitives chastise, say, words, keitai, mouth, glue 討議(とうぎ): debate, discussion 討論(とうろん): debate, discussion 討つ(うつ): attack, avenge 検討(けんとう): consideration, examination, investigation, study, scrutiny Kunyomi: う.つ Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 討つ (う.つ)"	"chastise 討 画数10 364 Details Story Dictionary 討 chastise Heisig's Words spoken to chastise us stick to us like glue in a way no other words can. Koohii #1 I said some bad words, and my mother chastised me by washing my mouth out with glue instead of soap! Koohii #2 In Colonial New England, people who committed adultery had words glued to them. A famous example is the ""A"" worn by Hester Prynn for committing adultery (i.e., not being chaste). In this way, words glued to you are supposed to chastise you and prevent further breaches of chastity. Primitives chastise, say, words, keitai, mouth, glue 討議(とうぎ): debate, discussion 討論(とうろん): debate, discussion 討つ(うつ): attack, avenge 検討(けんとう): consideration, examination, investigation, study, scrutiny Kunyomi: う.つ Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 討つ (う.つ)"
"instruction Details Story Dictionary 訓 instruction Heisig's The personalism connoted by the word instruction, as opposed to ""teaching"" or ""discipline,"" suits the picture here of words guiding one's progress like the gentle flowing of a stream. Even the etymology of the word instruction suggests the sense of ""pouring into"". Koohii #1 The best type of Japanese INSTRUCTION is full immersion, which consists of going to Japan and swimming in the stream of words that surrounds you every day. Koohii #2 Listen carefully to the words of instruction before you try swimming in the river. Primitives instruction, say, words, keitai, mouth, stream, flood 教訓(きょうくん): lesson, precept, moral instruction 訓(くん): native Japanese reading of a Chinese character 訓練(くんれん): practice, training Kunyomi: おし.える、よ.む、くん.ずる Onyomi: クン、キン Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"instruction 訓 画数10 365 Details Story Dictionary 訓 instruction Heisig's The personalism connoted by the word instruction, as opposed to ""teaching"" or ""discipline,"" suits the picture here of words guiding one's progress like the gentle flowing of a stream. Even the etymology of the word instruction suggests the sense of ""pouring into"". Koohii #1 The best type of Japanese INSTRUCTION is full immersion, which consists of going to Japan and swimming in the stream of words that surrounds you every day. Koohii #2 Listen carefully to the words of instruction before you try swimming in the river. Primitives instruction, say, words, keitai, mouth, stream, flood 教訓(きょうくん): lesson, precept, moral instruction 訓(くん): native Japanese reading of a Chinese character 訓練(くんれん): practice, training Kunyomi: おし.える、よ.む、くん.ずる Onyomi: クン、キン Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
"imperial edict Details Story Dictionary 詔 imperial edict Heisig's The imperial edict, spoken with the force of unquestionable law, is made up of words intended to seduce the masses - be it through fear or respect - to follow obediently. Koohii #1 The mnemonic ""words to seduce the masses"" was just too vague and I kept forgetting it. So now instead I picture a seductive female reading aloud the imperial edict to the masses, thus ""seducing"" the masses. Koohii #2 The emperor did not need an imperial edict; his words were more than enough to seduce Anakin to the dark side. Primitives imperial edict, say, words, keitai, mouth, summon, seduce, sword, dagger, mouth, mouth2 Kunyomi: みことのり Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 詔 (みことのり)"	"imperial edict 詔 画数12 366 Details Story Dictionary 詔 imperial edict Heisig's The imperial edict, spoken with the force of unquestionable law, is made up of words intended to seduce the masses - be it through fear or respect - to follow obediently. Koohii #1 The mnemonic ""words to seduce the masses"" was just too vague and I kept forgetting it. So now instead I picture a seductive female reading aloud the imperial edict to the masses, thus ""seducing"" the masses. Koohii #2 The emperor did not need an imperial edict; his words were more than enough to seduce Anakin to the dark side. Primitives imperial edict, say, words, keitai, mouth, summon, seduce, sword, dagger, mouth, mouth2 Kunyomi: みことのり Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 詔 (みことのり)"
"packed Details Story Dictionary 詰 packed Heisig's A piece of writing that is pregnant with meaning and needs to be reread several times to be understood we refer to colloquially as ""packed."" The character sees the words as sealed tightly inside an aerosol can. Koohii #1 WORDS of GOOD LUCK are PACKED into fortune cookies. Koohii #2 Nowadays, grafitti comes pre-packaged. The factory takes a bunch of words and aerosol cans and then makes sure the words get tightly packed inside. All you have to do is spray and everything takes care of itself! Primitives packed, say, words, keitai, mouth, aerosol, good luck, samurai, mouth, mouth2 詰らない(つまらない): insignificant, boring, trifling 詰まり(つまり): in short, in brief, in other words, that is to say, in the long run, after all, blockade, stuffing, ultimate 詰る(なじる): to rebuke, to scold, to tell off 缶詰(かんづめ): canning, canned goods, tin can 詰まる(つまる): be blocked, be packed 詰める(つめる): pack, shorten, work out (details) 瓶詰(びんづめ): bottling, bottled Kunyomi: つ.める、つ.め、-づ.め、つ.まる、つ.む Onyomi: キツ、キチ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 詰まる (つ.まる), 詰む (つ.む), 詰める (つ.める)"	"packed 詰 画数13 367 Details Story Dictionary 詰 packed Heisig's A piece of writing that is pregnant with meaning and needs to be reread several times to be understood we refer to colloquially as ""packed."" The character sees the words as sealed tightly inside an aerosol can. Koohii #1 WORDS of GOOD LUCK are PACKED into fortune cookies. Koohii #2 Nowadays, grafitti comes pre-packaged. The factory takes a bunch of words and aerosol cans and then makes sure the words get tightly packed inside. All you have to do is spray and everything takes care of itself! Primitives packed, say, words, keitai, mouth, aerosol, good luck, samurai, mouth, mouth2 詰らない(つまらない): insignificant, boring, trifling 詰まり(つまり): in short, in brief, in other words, that is to say, in the long run, after all, blockade, stuffing, ultimate 詰る(なじる): to rebuke, to scold, to tell off 缶詰(かんづめ): canning, canned goods, tin can 詰まる(つまる): be blocked, be packed 詰める(つめる): pack, shorten, work out (details) 瓶詰(びんづめ): bottling, bottled Kunyomi: つ.める、つ.め、-づ.め、つ.まる、つ.む Onyomi: キツ、キチ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 詰まる (つ.まる), 詰む (つ.む), 詰める (つ.める)"
"tale Details Story Dictionary 話 tale Heisig's That the words of the tongue should come to mean a tale is clear from the etymology: a tale is something ""talked,"" not something read from a book. Koohii #1 Tales are always spoken, not written, and because of this, words fly out of your tongue, rather than your pen. Koohii #2 Tales are spoken words, passed on from person to person, eventually being spoken by a thousand mouths. Primitives tale, say, words, keitai, mouth, tongue, thousand, mouth, mouth2 対話(たいわ): interactive, interaction, conversation, dialogue 話し合い(はなしあい): discussion, conference 受話器(じゅわき): telephone receiver 神話(しんわ): myth, legend 童話(どうわ): fairy-tale 話し合う(はなしあう): discuss, talk together 話し掛ける(はなしかける): accost a person, talk (to someone) 話中(はなしちゅう): while talking, the line is busy 話題(わだい): topic, subject 会話(かいわ): conversation 世話(せわ): take care of 電話(でんわ): telephone 話(はなし): talk, speech, chat, story, conversation 話す(はなす): speak Kunyomi: はな.す、はなし Onyomi: ワ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 話す (はな.す), 話 (はなし)"	"tale 話 画数13 368 Details Story Dictionary 話 tale Heisig's That the words of the tongue should come to mean a tale is clear from the etymology: a tale is something ""talked,"" not something read from a book. Koohii #1 Tales are always spoken, not written, and because of this, words fly out of your tongue, rather than your pen. Koohii #2 Tales are spoken words, passed on from person to person, eventually being spoken by a thousand mouths. Primitives tale, say, words, keitai, mouth, tongue, thousand, mouth, mouth2 対話(たいわ): interactive, interaction, conversation, dialogue 話し合い(はなしあい): discussion, conference 受話器(じゅわき): telephone receiver 神話(しんわ): myth, legend 童話(どうわ): fairy-tale 話し合う(はなしあう): discuss, talk together 話し掛ける(はなしかける): accost a person, talk (to someone) 話中(はなしちゅう): while talking, the line is busy 話題(わだい): topic, subject 会話(かいわ): conversation 世話(せわ): take care of 電話(でんわ): telephone 話(はなし): talk, speech, chat, story, conversation 話す(はなす): speak Kunyomi: はな.す、はなし Onyomi: ワ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 話す (はな.す), 話 (はなし)"
recitation Details Story Dictionary 詠 recitation Heisig's Listening to the words of poets reciting their poetry is like being transported for a moment into eternity where the rules of everyday life have been suspended. Koohii #1 Listening to the words in a recitation of Vogon poetry is worse than spending an eternity in hell. [Note: I assume those 2 reports are to warn against possible confusion with poem (#346) but how can you confuse Vogon poetry with an actual poem? Anyway, it´s the next frame, so it should be easy to keep them straight... Or maybe there´s a kanji for Vogon in RTK3?]. Koohii #2 If you study some words for a recitation, there is a good chance they will be stuck in your memory for all eternity. Primitives recitation, say, words, keitai, mouth, eternity, drop, water Kunyomi: よ.む、うた.う Onyomi: エイ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 詠む (よ.む)	recitation 詠 画数12 369 Details Story Dictionary 詠 recitation Heisig's Listening to the words of poets reciting their poetry is like being transported for a moment into eternity where the rules of everyday life have been suspended. Koohii #1 Listening to the words in a recitation of Vogon poetry is worse than spending an eternity in hell. [Note: I assume those 2 reports are to warn against possible confusion with poem (#346) but how can you confuse Vogon poetry with an actual poem? Anyway, it´s the next frame, so it should be easy to keep them straight... Or maybe there´s a kanji for Vogon in RTK3?]. Koohii #2 If you study some words for a recitation, there is a good chance they will be stuck in your memory for all eternity. Primitives recitation, say, words, keitai, mouth, eternity, drop, water Kunyomi: よ.む、うた.う Onyomi: エイ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 詠む (よ.む)
poem Details Story Dictionary 詩 poem Heisig's Since silence is treasured so highly at a Buddhist temple the words spoken there must be well-chosen. Perhaps this is why the records of the monks often read to us like poems. Before going on, back up a frame and make sure you have kept poem and recitation distinct in your mind. Koohii #1 A poem is a temple of words. Koohii #2 WORDS used in a TEMPLE must be very well chosen. That´s why most people will speak using a poem if they are SAYING something in a TEMPLE. Primitives poem, say, words, keitai, mouth, Buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue 詩(し): poem, verse of poetry 詩人(しじん): poet Kunyomi: うた Onyomi: シ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	poem 詩 画数13 370 Details Story Dictionary 詩 poem Heisig's Since silence is treasured so highly at a Buddhist temple the words spoken there must be well-chosen. Perhaps this is why the records of the monks often read to us like poems. Before going on, back up a frame and make sure you have kept poem and recitation distinct in your mind. Koohii #1 A poem is a temple of words. Koohii #2 WORDS used in a TEMPLE must be very well chosen. That´s why most people will speak using a poem if they are SAYING something in a TEMPLE. Primitives poem, say, words, keitai, mouth, Buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue 詩(し): poem, verse of poetry 詩人(しじん): poet Kunyomi: うた Onyomi: シ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
word Details Story Dictionary 語 word Heisig's Whereas the character for say focused on the actual talking, that for words stresses the fact that although it is I who say them, the words of a language are not my own. You can see the clear distinction between I and words just by looking at the kanji. Koohii #1 The simplest word to say is I. Koohii #2 May I say a word about that? Primitives word, say, words, keitai, mouth, I, five, mouth, mouth2 漢語(かんご): Chinese word, Sino-Japanese word 語彙(ごい): vocabulary, glossary 語句(ごく): words, phrases 語源(ごげん): word root, word derivation, etymology 標語(ひょうご): motto, slogan, catchword 文語(ぶんご): written language, literary language 略語(りゃくご): abbreviation, acronym 語る(かたる): talk, tell, recite 敬語(けいご): honorific, term of respect 言語(げんご): language 語(ご): language, word 語学(ごがく): language study 国語(こくご): national language 熟語(じゅくご): idiom, idiomatic phrase, kanji compound 主語(しゅご): (grammar) subject 述語(じゅつご): predicate 単語(たんご): word, vocabulary, (usually) single-character word 物語(ものがたり): tale, story, legend 物語る(ものがたる): tell, indicate 用語(ようご): term, terminology 英語(えいご): the English language Kunyomi: かた.る、かた.らう Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 語らう (かた.らう), 語る (かた.る)	word 語 画数14 371 Details Story Dictionary 語 word Heisig's Whereas the character for say focused on the actual talking, that for words stresses the fact that although it is I who say them, the words of a language are not my own. You can see the clear distinction between I and words just by looking at the kanji. Koohii #1 The simplest word to say is I. Koohii #2 May I say a word about that? Primitives word, say, words, keitai, mouth, I, five, mouth, mouth2 漢語(かんご): Chinese word, Sino-Japanese word 語彙(ごい): vocabulary, glossary 語句(ごく): words, phrases 語源(ごげん): word root, word derivation, etymology 標語(ひょうご): motto, slogan, catchword 文語(ぶんご): written language, literary language 略語(りゃくご): abbreviation, acronym 語る(かたる): talk, tell, recite 敬語(けいご): honorific, term of respect 言語(げんご): language 語(ご): language, word 語学(ごがく): language study 国語(こくご): national language 熟語(じゅくご): idiom, idiomatic phrase, kanji compound 主語(しゅご): (grammar) subject 述語(じゅつご): predicate 単語(たんご): word, vocabulary, (usually) single-character word 物語(ものがたり): tale, story, legend 物語る(ものがたる): tell, indicate 用語(ようご): term, terminology 英語(えいご): the English language Kunyomi: かた.る、かた.らう Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 語らう (かた.らう), 語る (かた.る)
read Details Story Dictionary 読 read Heisig's In the age of advertising, most words we read are out to sell some product or point of view. Koohii #1 Read the WORDS used to SELL things. Koohii #2 People will say (言) almost anything to make a sale (売); don´t believe everything you read (読). Primitives read, say, words, keitai, mouth, sell, sale, samurai, paper punch, Miss World, crown, human legs 購読(こうどく): subscription (e.g. magazine) 講読(こうどく): reading, translation 読者(どくしゃ): reader 読み上げる(よみあげる): to read out loud (and clearly), to call a roll 朗読(ろうどく): reading aloud, recitation 句読点(くとうてん): punctuation marks 読書(どくしょ): reading 読み(よみ): reading 読む(よむ): read Kunyomi: よ.む、-よ.み Onyomi: ドク、トク、トウ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 読書 (どくしょ), 音読 (おんどく), 購読 (こうどく), 読本 (どくほん), 読む (よ.む)	read 読 画数14 372 Details Story Dictionary 読 read Heisig's In the age of advertising, most words we read are out to sell some product or point of view. Koohii #1 Read the WORDS used to SELL things. Koohii #2 People will say (言) almost anything to make a sale (売); don´t believe everything you read (読). Primitives read, say, words, keitai, mouth, sell, sale, samurai, paper punch, Miss World, crown, human legs 購読(こうどく): subscription (e.g. magazine) 講読(こうどく): reading, translation 読者(どくしゃ): reader 読み上げる(よみあげる): to read out loud (and clearly), to call a roll 朗読(ろうどく): reading aloud, recitation 句読点(くとうてん): punctuation marks 読書(どくしょ): reading 読み(よみ): reading 読む(よむ): read Kunyomi: よ.む、-よ.み Onyomi: ドク、トク、トウ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 読書 (どくしょ), 音読 (おんどく), 購読 (こうどく), 読本 (どくほん), 読む (よ.む)
tune Details Story Dictionary 調 tune Heisig's A complete tune is composed not only of a succession of notes but also of one lap of the words that go with it. Koohii #1 To tune an old-fashioned radio, you turn the dial the full range of the circumference, until you can clearly hear what´s being said. Koohii #2 words + circumference The most catchy tunes are words the go round and round the circuference of your head and you can´t get it out of your mind. Primitives tune, say, words, keitai, mouth, circumference, running track, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, mouth2 協調(きょうちょう): co-operation, conciliation, harmony, firm (market) tone 好調(こうちょう): favourable, promising, satisfactory, in good shape 下調べ(したしらべ): preliminary investigation, preparation 失調(しっちょう): lack of harmony 調べ(しらべ): preparation, investigation, inspection 単調(たんちょう): monotony, monotone, dullness 調印(ちょういん): signature, sign, sealing 調停(ちょうてい): arbitration, conciliation, mediation 調理(ちょうり): cooking 調和(ちょうわ): harmony 同調(どうちょう): sympathy, agree with, alignment, tuning 取り調べる(とりしらべる): to investigate, to examine 不調(ふちょう): bad condition, not to work out (ie a deal), disagreement, break-off, disorder, slump, out of form 強調(きょうちょう): emphasis, stress, stressed point 順調(じゅんちょう): favourable, doing well, O.K., all right 調査(ちょうさ): investigation, examination, inquiry, survey 調子(ちょうし): tune, tone, key, pitch, time, rhythm, vein, mood, way, manner, style, knack, condition, state of health, strain, impetus, spur of the moment, trend 調整(ちょうせい): regulation, adjustment, tuning 調節(ちょうせつ): regulation, adjustment, control 調味料(ちょうみりょう): condiment, seasoning 調べる(しらべる): investigate Kunyomi: しら.べる、しら.べ、ととの.う、ととの.える Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 調べる (しら.べる), 調う (ととの.う), 調える (ととの.える)	tune 調 画数15 373 Details Story Dictionary 調 tune Heisig's A complete tune is composed not only of a succession of notes but also of one lap of the words that go with it. Koohii #1 To tune an old-fashioned radio, you turn the dial the full range of the circumference, until you can clearly hear what´s being said. Koohii #2 words + circumference The most catchy tunes are words the go round and round the circuference of your head and you can´t get it out of your mind. Primitives tune, say, words, keitai, mouth, circumference, running track, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, mouth2 協調(きょうちょう): co-operation, conciliation, harmony, firm (market) tone 好調(こうちょう): favourable, promising, satisfactory, in good shape 下調べ(したしらべ): preliminary investigation, preparation 失調(しっちょう): lack of harmony 調べ(しらべ): preparation, investigation, inspection 単調(たんちょう): monotony, monotone, dullness 調印(ちょういん): signature, sign, sealing 調停(ちょうてい): arbitration, conciliation, mediation 調理(ちょうり): cooking 調和(ちょうわ): harmony 同調(どうちょう): sympathy, agree with, alignment, tuning 取り調べる(とりしらべる): to investigate, to examine 不調(ふちょう): bad condition, not to work out (ie a deal), disagreement, break-off, disorder, slump, out of form 強調(きょうちょう): emphasis, stress, stressed point 順調(じゅんちょう): favourable, doing well, O.K., all right 調査(ちょうさ): investigation, examination, inquiry, survey 調子(ちょうし): tune, tone, key, pitch, time, rhythm, vein, mood, way, manner, style, knack, condition, state of health, strain, impetus, spur of the moment, trend 調整(ちょうせい): regulation, adjustment, tuning 調節(ちょうせつ): regulation, adjustment, control 調味料(ちょうみりょう): condiment, seasoning 調べる(しらべる): investigate Kunyomi: しら.べる、しら.べ、ととの.う、ととの.える Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 調べる (しら.べる), 調う (ととの.う), 調える (ととの.える)
discuss Details Story Dictionary 談 discuss My Story [Say/Word + Flame {炎}] I hate to DISCUSS religion or politics because people's *WORDS* always become *INFLAMED*. Koohii #1 Think of an online discussion group where misunderstanding someone´s words leads to flaming. An angry discussion = inflamed words. Koohii #2 Internet discussions often involve inflammatory words. Flame war! Primitives discuss, say, words, keitai, mouth, inflammation, fire, fire2 縁談(えんだん): marriage proposal, engagement 会談(かいだん): conversation, conference, discussion, interview 座談会(ざだんかい): symposium, round-table discussion 雑談(ざつだん): chatting, idle talk 相談(そうだん): consultation, discussion 対談(たいだん): talk, dialogue, conversation 冗談(じょうだん): jest, joke Kunyomi: Onyomi: ダン Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	discuss 談 画数15 374 Details Story Dictionary 談 discuss My Story [Say/Word + Flame {炎}] I hate to DISCUSS religion or politics because people's *WORDS* always become *INFLAMED*. Koohii #1 Think of an online discussion group where misunderstanding someone´s words leads to flaming. An angry discussion = inflamed words. Koohii #2 Internet discussions often involve inflammatory words. Flame war! Primitives discuss, say, words, keitai, mouth, inflammation, fire, fire2 縁談(えんだん): marriage proposal, engagement 会談(かいだん): conversation, conference, discussion, interview 座談会(ざだんかい): symposium, round-table discussion 雑談(ざつだん): chatting, idle talk 相談(そうだん): consultation, discussion 対談(たいだん): talk, dialogue, conversation 冗談(じょうだん): jest, joke Kunyomi: Onyomi: ダン Lesson: 15 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
"consent Details Story Dictionary 諾 consent Heisig's The words of the young do not have legal validity unless backed up by ""parental consent."" Koohii #1 The words of the very young are useless without CONSENT from their elders. Koohii #2 Delores might say, ""Yes!"", but she´s way too young give any legal consent. Primitives consent, say, words, keitai, mouth, young, flowers, by one’s side, mouth, mouth2 承諾(しょうだく): consent, acquiescence, agreement Kunyomi: Onyomi: ダク Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"consent 諾 画数15 375 Details Story Dictionary 諾 consent Heisig's The words of the young do not have legal validity unless backed up by ""parental consent."" Koohii #1 The words of the very young are useless without CONSENT from their elders. Koohii #2 Delores might say, ""Yes!"", but she´s way too young give any legal consent. Primitives consent, say, words, keitai, mouth, young, flowers, by one’s side, mouth, mouth2 承諾(しょうだく): consent, acquiescence, agreement Kunyomi: Onyomi: ダク Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"rebuke Details Story Dictionary 諭 rebuke Heisig's The stern tone of a rebuke is seen here in the image of words spoken at a meeting of butchers (See frame 307) waving their choppers at one another and ""cutting one another down"" as only butchers can. Koohii #1 A PETA activist speaks at a meeting of butchers to rebuke them. Koohii #2 I imagine Socrates gate-crashing a meeting of butchers and REBUKING them: ´You´ve been killing things again; you have, haven´t you?´ while the embarrassed butchers blush and try to hide their knives behind their backs and stand in front of hanging sides of beef. Primitives rebuke, say, words, keitai, mouth, meeting of butchers, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sword, sabre, saber Kunyomi: さと.す Onyomi: ユ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 諭す (さと.す)"	"rebuke 諭 画数16 376 Details Story Dictionary 諭 rebuke Heisig's The stern tone of a rebuke is seen here in the image of words spoken at a meeting of butchers (See frame 307) waving their choppers at one another and ""cutting one another down"" as only butchers can. Koohii #1 A PETA activist speaks at a meeting of butchers to rebuke them. Koohii #2 I imagine Socrates gate-crashing a meeting of butchers and REBUKING them: ´You´ve been killing things again; you have, haven´t you?´ while the embarrassed butchers blush and try to hide their knives behind their backs and stand in front of hanging sides of beef. Primitives rebuke, say, words, keitai, mouth, meeting of butchers, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sword, sabre, saber Kunyomi: さと.す Onyomi: ユ Lesson: 15 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 諭す (さと.す)"
"style Details Story Dictionary 式 style Heisig's Take style in its sense of some fashion design or model. Then let the element arrow and craft stand for the well-known style of shirts known as ""Arrow shirts"" because of the little arrow sewn on each one. Koohii #1 Each Indian tribe crafts their arrows in a certain style.. Koohii #2 The latest style is shirts crafted out of arrows. Primitives style, arrow, craft 株式(かぶしき): stock (company) 式場(しきじょう): ceremonial hall, place of ceremony (e.g. marriage) 方式(ほうしき): form, method, system 様式(ようしき): style, form, pattern 儀式(ぎしき): ceremony, rite, ritual, service 形式(けいしき): form, formality, format, mathematics expression 公式(こうしき): formula, formality, official 式(しき): equation, formula, ceremony 正式(せいしき): due form, official, formality 葬式(そうしき): funeral 方程式(ほうていしき): equation Kunyomi: Onyomi: シキ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"style 式 画数6 377 Details Story Dictionary 式 style Heisig's Take style in its sense of some fashion design or model. Then let the element arrow and craft stand for the well-known style of shirts known as ""Arrow shirts"" because of the little arrow sewn on each one. Koohii #1 Each Indian tribe crafts their arrows in a certain style.. Koohii #2 The latest style is shirts crafted out of arrows. Primitives style, arrow, craft 株式(かぶしき): stock (company) 式場(しきじょう): ceremonial hall, place of ceremony (e.g. marriage) 方式(ほうしき): form, method, system 様式(ようしき): style, form, pattern 儀式(ぎしき): ceremony, rite, ritual, service 形式(けいしき): form, formality, format, mathematics expression 公式(こうしき): formula, formality, official 式(しき): equation, formula, ceremony 正式(せいしき): due form, official, formality 葬式(そうしき): funeral 方程式(ほうていしき): equation Kunyomi: Onyomi: シキ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
test Details Story Dictionary 試 test My Story [Speaking {言} + style {式}] The Japanese oral exam was a #test# of my *speaking* *style*. The test focused on *speaking* and writing *style* (ceremony) Koohii #1 In an essay test, you are judged on both your choice of words and your writing style. Koohii #2 The Japanese oral exam was a test of my speaking style. Primitives test, say, words, keitai, mouth, style, arrow, craft 試み(こころみ): trial, experiment 試みる(こころみる): to try, to test 試し(ためし): trial, test 試す(ためす): attempt, test 試合(しあい): game 試験(しけん): examination Kunyomi: こころ.みる、ため.す Onyomi: シ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 試みる (こころ.みる), 試す (ため.す)	test 試 画数13 378 Details Story Dictionary 試 test My Story [Speaking {言} + style {式}] The Japanese oral exam was a #test# of my *speaking* *style*. The test focused on *speaking* and writing *style* (ceremony) Koohii #1 In an essay test, you are judged on both your choice of words and your writing style. Koohii #2 The Japanese oral exam was a test of my speaking style. Primitives test, say, words, keitai, mouth, style, arrow, craft 試み(こころみ): trial, experiment 試みる(こころみる): to try, to test 試し(ためし): trial, test 試す(ためす): attempt, test 試合(しあい): game 試験(しけん): examination Kunyomi: こころ.みる、ため.す Onyomi: シ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 試みる (こころ.みる), 試す (ため.す)
II (two) Details Story Dictionary 弐 II (two) Heisig's We use the Roman numeral II here to stress that this kanji is an older form of the kanji for two. Think of two arrows in a quiver, standing up like the numeral II. Koohii #1 II (older form of writing 2). After shooting one arrow (the dash top left), I have 2 arrows left in my quiver (bottom left). Koohii #2 Once you have two old arrows left in your quiver, you better start running...! Primitives II, two, arrows, quiver Kunyomi: ふた.つ、そえ Onyomi: ニ、ジ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	II (two) 弐 画数6 379 Details Story Dictionary 弐 II (two) Heisig's We use the Roman numeral II here to stress that this kanji is an older form of the kanji for two. Think of two arrows in a quiver, standing up like the numeral II. Koohii #1 II (older form of writing 2). After shooting one arrow (the dash top left), I have 2 arrows left in my quiver (bottom left). Koohii #2 Once you have two old arrows left in your quiver, you better start running...! Primitives II, two, arrows, quiver Kunyomi: ふた.つ、そえ Onyomi: ニ、ジ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"range Details Story Dictionary 域 range Heisig's From its original meaning of a defined area or zone, a range has also come to mean a grazing land where cowboys roam and do whatever it is they do with cows. When the herds have all been driven to market, there is a great homecoming fiesta like that pictured here. As soon as the cowboys come home, home on the range, the first thing they do is kiss the ground (the mouth on the floor), and then get on with the fiesta. Koohii #1 An astronaut lands back at the launch range, kisses the earth beneath him with his mouth, then heads off to a fiesta to celebrate a safe flight. Koohii #2 Instead of Heisig´s ""Fiesta"" I use ""Spear"". Why? A spear is just a DROP extra on an Arrow. 域, range actually means range as in limits/boundary/border sort of range(In a box it was the old meaning for Country國 (581). Ok way too much etymology here, but back to story. With your SPEAR standing in a HOLE on the FLOOR with SOIL to its left9as you dug some out), you can see the RANGE of the spear in attacking a possible enemy (re Diablo and other RPGs, spear´s have range). Primitives range, soil, dirt, ground, pope, fiesta, mouth, one, floor 域外(いきがい): outside the area 領域(りょういき): area, domain, territory, field, region, regime 区域(くいき): limits, boundary, domain, zone, sphere, territory 地域(ちいき): area, region 流域(りゅういき): (river) basin Kunyomi: Onyomi: イキ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"range 域 画数11 380 Details Story Dictionary 域 range Heisig's From its original meaning of a defined area or zone, a range has also come to mean a grazing land where cowboys roam and do whatever it is they do with cows. When the herds have all been driven to market, there is a great homecoming fiesta like that pictured here. As soon as the cowboys come home, home on the range, the first thing they do is kiss the ground (the mouth on the floor), and then get on with the fiesta. Koohii #1 An astronaut lands back at the launch range, kisses the earth beneath him with his mouth, then heads off to a fiesta to celebrate a safe flight. Koohii #2 Instead of Heisig´s ""Fiesta"" I use ""Spear"". Why? A spear is just a DROP extra on an Arrow. 域, range actually means range as in limits/boundary/border sort of range(In a box it was the old meaning for Country國 (581). Ok way too much etymology here, but back to story. With your SPEAR standing in a HOLE on the FLOOR with SOIL to its left9as you dug some out), you can see the RANGE of the spear in attacking a possible enemy (re Diablo and other RPGs, spear´s have range). Primitives range, soil, dirt, ground, pope, fiesta, mouth, one, floor 域外(いきがい): outside the area 領域(りょういき): area, domain, territory, field, region, regime 区域(くいき): limits, boundary, domain, zone, sphere, territory 地域(ちいき): area, region 流域(りゅういき): (river) basin Kunyomi: Onyomi: イキ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
burglar Details Story Dictionary 賊 burglar Heisig's From a burglar's point of view, a fiesta is an occasion to takeout the old lock picking needle and break into the unattended safe filled with the family shells (the old form of money, as we saw in frames 84 and 206). Koohii #1 Burglars... those guys!!! Burglars only want money (clams) so that they can get needles (drugs) and party (fiesta)! Koohii #2 After the fiesta, we found out that some burglar had stolen our money, probably breaking in with a lockpick needle... Primitives burglar, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, ten, needle, fiesta Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゾク Lesson: 16 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	burglar 賊 画数13 381 Details Story Dictionary 賊 burglar Heisig's From a burglar's point of view, a fiesta is an occasion to takeout the old lock picking needle and break into the unattended safe filled with the family shells (the old form of money, as we saw in frames 84 and 206). Koohii #1 Burglars... those guys!!! Burglars only want money (clams) so that they can get needles (drugs) and party (fiesta)! Koohii #2 After the fiesta, we found out that some burglar had stolen our money, probably breaking in with a lockpick needle... Primitives burglar, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, ten, needle, fiesta Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゾク Lesson: 16 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
plantation Details Story Dictionary 栽 plantation Heisig's On a fruit plantation it is the trees that one is particularly grateful for at the time of Thanksgiving. Imagine yourself inviting a few representative trees from the fields and orchards to join you around the table to give thanks. Koohii #1 The plantation is where we get our Christmas trees. We pick them out at Thanksgiving to be sure we get a good one. Koohii #2 During Thanksgiving, all the trees on the plantation celebrate the harvest. It´s a good time for them, too. Primitives plantation, Thanksgiving, harvest festival, ten, needle, fiesta, tree, wood 栽培(さいばい): cultivation Kunyomi: Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	plantation 栽 画数10 382 Details Story Dictionary 栽 plantation Heisig's On a fruit plantation it is the trees that one is particularly grateful for at the time of Thanksgiving. Imagine yourself inviting a few representative trees from the fields and orchards to join you around the table to give thanks. Koohii #1 The plantation is where we get our Christmas trees. We pick them out at Thanksgiving to be sure we get a good one. Koohii #2 During Thanksgiving, all the trees on the plantation celebrate the harvest. It´s a good time for them, too. Primitives plantation, Thanksgiving, harvest festival, ten, needle, fiesta, tree, wood 栽培(さいばい): cultivation Kunyomi: Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
load Details Story Dictionary 載 load Heisig's One loads bales on a wagon or cart in preparation for the great Hay Ride that follows the Thanksgiving dinner each year. Koohii #1 After eating a big Thanksgiving dinner, you have to be careful in the car ride home not to drop a load in your pants. Koohii #2 After ´Thanksgiving´ dinner, my girlfriend gave me a BJ on the drive back home. I blew my ´load´ and ´soiled´ the ´car´. But it was LOADS of fun! Please report this story if this makes you feel uncomfortable :). Primitives load, Thanksgiving, harvest festival, ten, needle, fiesta, car, vehicle 記載(きさい): mention, entry 掲載(けいさい): appearance (e.g. article in paper) 載せる(のせる): to place on (something), to take on board, to give a ride, to let (one) take part, to impose on, to record, to mention, to load (luggage), to publish, to run (an ad) 載る(のる): get on, ride in, board, mount, get up on, be taken in, share in, join, be found in (a dictionary), feel like doing, be mentioned in, be in harmony with, appear (in print), be recorded Kunyomi: の.せる、の.る Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 載せる (の.せる), 載る (の.る)	load 載 画数13 383 Details Story Dictionary 載 load Heisig's One loads bales on a wagon or cart in preparation for the great Hay Ride that follows the Thanksgiving dinner each year. Koohii #1 After eating a big Thanksgiving dinner, you have to be careful in the car ride home not to drop a load in your pants. Koohii #2 After ´Thanksgiving´ dinner, my girlfriend gave me a BJ on the drive back home. I blew my ´load´ and ´soiled´ the ´car´. But it was LOADS of fun! Please report this story if this makes you feel uncomfortable :). Primitives load, Thanksgiving, harvest festival, ten, needle, fiesta, car, vehicle 記載(きさい): mention, entry 掲載(けいさい): appearance (e.g. article in paper) 載せる(のせる): to place on (something), to take on board, to give a ride, to let (one) take part, to impose on, to record, to mention, to load (luggage), to publish, to run (an ad) 載る(のる): get on, ride in, board, mount, get up on, be taken in, share in, join, be found in (a dictionary), feel like doing, be mentioned in, be in harmony with, appear (in print), be recorded Kunyomi: の.せる、の.る Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 載せる (の.せる), 載る (の.る)
overgrown Details Story Dictionary 茂 overgrown Heisig's The sense of the key word overgrown is of something growing luxuriously, though not necessarily in excess - in this case a whole parade of weeds (outcast flowers). By way of exception, the flowers take their normal place over the enclosure. Koohii #1 The gay parade looks astonishing, as if overgrown with flowers. Koohii #2 When your garden gets OVERGROWN, it´s like the plants are mocking you. Here, you can see the roses actually parading around the yard, wilfully choking out the other, more docile plants. Then they actually go and parade down the street! Primitives overgrown, flowers, parade 茂る(しげる): grow thick, luxuriate, be luxurious Kunyomi: しげ.る Onyomi: モ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 茂る (しげ.る)	overgrown 茂 画数8 384 Details Story Dictionary 茂 overgrown Heisig's The sense of the key word overgrown is of something growing luxuriously, though not necessarily in excess - in this case a whole parade of weeds (outcast flowers). By way of exception, the flowers take their normal place over the enclosure. Koohii #1 The gay parade looks astonishing, as if overgrown with flowers. Koohii #2 When your garden gets OVERGROWN, it´s like the plants are mocking you. Here, you can see the roses actually parading around the yard, wilfully choking out the other, more docile plants. Then they actually go and parade down the street! Primitives overgrown, flowers, parade 茂る(しげる): grow thick, luxuriate, be luxurious Kunyomi: しげ.る Onyomi: モ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 茂る (しげ.る)
"relatives Details Story Dictionary 戚 relatives Heisig's If you think of a parade of particularly disagreeable relatives, it should not be hard to imagine them as large bodies with little pea-brains above. Koohii #1 Your half-uncle is leading a parade of your relatives. (Note: 上 + 小 makes up part of ""uncle"" 叔, so I´ve called it ""half-uncle"".). Koohii #2 Your uncle organizes a parade of all your relatives, which he himself is only half in because he´s busy taking pictures of it. Primitives relatives, half-uncle, above, small, little, parade 親戚(しんせき): relative Kunyomi: いた.む、うれ.える、みうち Onyomi: ソク、セキ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"relatives 戚 画数11 385 Details Story Dictionary 戚 relatives Heisig's If you think of a parade of particularly disagreeable relatives, it should not be hard to imagine them as large bodies with little pea-brains above. Koohii #1 Your half-uncle is leading a parade of your relatives. (Note: 上 + 小 makes up part of ""uncle"" 叔, so I´ve called it ""half-uncle"".). Koohii #2 Your uncle organizes a parade of all your relatives, which he himself is only half in because he´s busy taking pictures of it. Primitives relatives, half-uncle, above, small, little, parade 親戚(しんせき): relative Kunyomi: いた.む、うれ.える、みうち Onyomi: ソク、セキ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
"turn into Details Story Dictionary 成 turn into Heisig's Let the phrase ""turn into"" suggest some sort of a magical change. What happens here is that the parade marching down main street turns into a dagger-throwing bout between competing bands. Note how only one stroke has to be added to make the change. Koohii #1 It only takes a single stroke of a dagger for a parade to TURN INTO a bloodbath. Koohii #2 The gay parade suddenly TURNED INTO a DAGGER throwing fight. Primitives turn into, parade, sword, dagger 行き成り(いきなり): suddenly 育成(いくせい): rearing, training, nurture, cultivation, promotion 可成(かなり): considerably, fairly, quite 形成(けいせい): formation 結成(けっせい): formation 合成(ごうせい): synthesis, composition, synthetic, composite, mixed, combined, compound 成果(せいか): results, fruits 成熟(せいじゅく): maturity, ripeness 成年(せいねん): majority, adult age 達成(たっせい): achievement 成り立つ(なりたつ): to conclude, to consist of, to be practical (logical feasible viable), to hold true 成る(なる): become 成る丈(なるたけ): as much as possible, if possible 成るべく(なるべく): as much as possible 持て成す(もてなす): to entertain, to make welcome 養成(ようせい): training, development 完成(かんせい): complete, completion, perfection, accomplishment 構成(こうせい): organization, composition 作成(さくせい): frame, draw up, make, producing, creating, preparing, writing, 賛成(さんせい): approval, agreement, support, favour 成功(せいこう): success, hit 成人(せいじん): adult 成績(せいせき): results, record 成長(せいちょう): growth, grow to adulthood 成分(せいぶん): ingredient, component, composition 成立(せいりつ): coming into existence, arrangements, establishment, completion Kunyomi: な.る、な.す、-な.す Onyomi: セイ、ジョウ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 成功 (せいこう), 完成 (かんせい), 賛成 (さんせい), 成す (な.す), 成る (な.る)"	"turn into 成 画数6 386 Details Story Dictionary 成 turn into Heisig's Let the phrase ""turn into"" suggest some sort of a magical change. What happens here is that the parade marching down main street turns into a dagger-throwing bout between competing bands. Note how only one stroke has to be added to make the change. Koohii #1 It only takes a single stroke of a dagger for a parade to TURN INTO a bloodbath. Koohii #2 The gay parade suddenly TURNED INTO a DAGGER throwing fight. Primitives turn into, parade, sword, dagger 行き成り(いきなり): suddenly 育成(いくせい): rearing, training, nurture, cultivation, promotion 可成(かなり): considerably, fairly, quite 形成(けいせい): formation 結成(けっせい): formation 合成(ごうせい): synthesis, composition, synthetic, composite, mixed, combined, compound 成果(せいか): results, fruits 成熟(せいじゅく): maturity, ripeness 成年(せいねん): majority, adult age 達成(たっせい): achievement 成り立つ(なりたつ): to conclude, to consist of, to be practical (logical feasible viable), to hold true 成る(なる): become 成る丈(なるたけ): as much as possible, if possible 成るべく(なるべく): as much as possible 持て成す(もてなす): to entertain, to make welcome 養成(ようせい): training, development 完成(かんせい): complete, completion, perfection, accomplishment 構成(こうせい): organization, composition 作成(さくせい): frame, draw up, make, producing, creating, preparing, writing, 賛成(さんせい): approval, agreement, support, favour 成功(せいこう): success, hit 成人(せいじん): adult 成績(せいせき): results, record 成長(せいちょう): growth, grow to adulthood 成分(せいぶん): ingredient, component, composition 成立(せいりつ): coming into existence, arrangements, establishment, completion Kunyomi: な.る、な.す、-な.す Onyomi: セイ、ジョウ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 成功 (せいこう), 完成 (かんせい), 賛成 (さんせい), 成す (な.す), 成る (な.る)"
castle Details Story Dictionary 城 castle My Story Bruh, If *Jesus* can do anything, then he can *become* a castle. (you gotta stop doing drugs, man) Koohii #1 The sand castle is just the soil (#150) that turns into a castle. Koohii #2 Someday this mound of dirt here will turn into our CASTLE, the ants think to themselves when scoping out a new ant hill. Primitives castle, soil, dirt, ground, turn into, parade, sword, dagger 城下(じょうか): land near the castle 城(しろ): castle Kunyomi: しろ Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 城 (しろ)	castle 城 画数9 387 Details Story Dictionary 城 castle My Story Bruh, If *Jesus* can do anything, then he can *become* a castle. (you gotta stop doing drugs, man) Koohii #1 The sand castle is just the soil (#150) that turns into a castle. Koohii #2 Someday this mound of dirt here will turn into our CASTLE, the ants think to themselves when scoping out a new ant hill. Primitives castle, soil, dirt, ground, turn into, parade, sword, dagger 城下(じょうか): land near the castle 城(しろ): castle Kunyomi: しろ Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 城 (しろ)
sincerity Details Story Dictionary 誠 sincerity Heisig's The sure sign of sincerity is that one's mere words are turned into deeds. Koohii #1 Sincerity happens when what you say actually turns into something. Koohii #2 Sincerity is turning your words into actions. Primitives sincerity, say, words, keitai, mouth, turn into, sword, dagger, parade 誠実(せいじつ): sincere, honest, faithful 誠(まこと): truth, faith, fidelity, sincerity, trust, confidence, reliance, devotion Kunyomi: まこと Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 誠 (まこと)	sincerity 誠 画数13 388 Details Story Dictionary 誠 sincerity Heisig's The sure sign of sincerity is that one's mere words are turned into deeds. Koohii #1 Sincerity happens when what you say actually turns into something. Koohii #2 Sincerity is turning your words into actions. Primitives sincerity, say, words, keitai, mouth, turn into, sword, dagger, parade 誠実(せいじつ): sincere, honest, faithful 誠(まこと): truth, faith, fidelity, sincerity, trust, confidence, reliance, devotion Kunyomi: まこと Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 誠 (まこと)
"intimidate Details Story Dictionary 威 intimidate Heisig's Here we see a march of women demonstrating on behalf of equal rights, something extremely intimidating to the male chauvinist population. Koohii #1 The march of women - against intimidation in the workplace - is pretty intimidating in itself! Koohii #2 Interesting that this kanji also has the meanings of ""dignity"" and ""threaten."" I can see how a march of women in Japan would be seen as intimidating by most men. Primitives intimidate, march, women, woman 威力(いりょく): power, might, authority, influence 権威(けんい): authority, power, influence 威張る(いばる): swagger, be proud Kunyomi: おど.す、おど.し、おど.かす Onyomi: イ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"intimidate 威 画数9 389 Details Story Dictionary 威 intimidate Heisig's Here we see a march of women demonstrating on behalf of equal rights, something extremely intimidating to the male chauvinist population. Koohii #1 The march of women - against intimidation in the workplace - is pretty intimidating in itself! Koohii #2 Interesting that this kanji also has the meanings of ""dignity"" and ""threaten."" I can see how a march of women in Japan would be seen as intimidating by most men. Primitives intimidate, march, women, woman 威力(いりょく): power, might, authority, influence 権威(けんい): authority, power, influence 威張る(いばる): swagger, be proud Kunyomi: おど.す、おど.し、おど.かす Onyomi: イ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"destroy Details Story Dictionary 滅 destroy Heisig's Picture a march of flames demonstrating against the Fire Department for their right to destroy, but being doused with water by the police riot squads. Koohii #1 Water flows down to destroy the march of fire. Koohii #2 Use a water cannon to destroy a line of marching fire monsters. I keep mixing this one up with disaster (#167) and demolition (#400). Remember, you DESTROY monsters (think of the Godzilla movie ""Destroy All Monsters!""). Fires and floods are natural DISASTERs. And DEMOLITION is something you carefully do while wearing protective garments. (vaguely based on stefanot´s balrog story). Primitives destroy, water, water droplets, water pistol, march, fire 全滅(ぜんめつ): annihilation 滅びる(ほろびる): to be ruined, to go under, to perish, to be destroyed 滅ぼす(ほろぼす): to destroy, to overthrow, to wreck, to ruin 滅茶苦茶(めちゃくちゃ): absurd, unreasonable, excessive, messed up, spoiled, wreaked 滅亡(めつぼう): downfall, ruin, collapse, destruction 絶滅(ぜつめつ): destruction, extinction 滅多に(めったに): rarely (with negative verb), seldom Kunyomi: ほろ.びる、ほろ.ぶ、ほろ.ぼす Onyomi: メツ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 滅びる (ほろ.びる), 滅ぼす (ほろ.ぼす)"	"destroy 滅 画数13 390 Details Story Dictionary 滅 destroy Heisig's Picture a march of flames demonstrating against the Fire Department for their right to destroy, but being doused with water by the police riot squads. Koohii #1 Water flows down to destroy the march of fire. Koohii #2 Use a water cannon to destroy a line of marching fire monsters. I keep mixing this one up with disaster (#167) and demolition (#400). Remember, you DESTROY monsters (think of the Godzilla movie ""Destroy All Monsters!""). Fires and floods are natural DISASTERs. And DEMOLITION is something you carefully do while wearing protective garments. (vaguely based on stefanot´s balrog story). Primitives destroy, water, water droplets, water pistol, march, fire 全滅(ぜんめつ): annihilation 滅びる(ほろびる): to be ruined, to go under, to perish, to be destroyed 滅ぼす(ほろぼす): to destroy, to overthrow, to wreck, to ruin 滅茶苦茶(めちゃくちゃ): absurd, unreasonable, excessive, messed up, spoiled, wreaked 滅亡(めつぼう): downfall, ruin, collapse, destruction 絶滅(ぜつめつ): destruction, extinction 滅多に(めったに): rarely (with negative verb), seldom Kunyomi: ほろ.びる、ほろ.ぶ、ほろ.ぼす Onyomi: メツ Lesson: 16 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 滅びる (ほろ.びる), 滅ぼす (ほろ.ぼす)"
dwindle Details Story Dictionary 減 dwindle Heisig's A group of unquenchable mouths sets out on a march across the country, drinking water wherever they find it until the water supply has dwindled to a trickle, triggering a national disaster. Koohii #1 When WATER was tossed on the PROTESTORS (a march of mouths), the numbers began to DWINDLE. Koohii #2 When water supplies dwindled, the population became a horde of dry mouths, marching to seize the water in the neighboring kingdom. Primitives dwindle, water, water droplets, water pistol, march, mouth いい加減(いいかげん): moderate, right, random, not thorough, vague, irresponsible, halfhearted 軽減(けいげん): abatement 減少(げんしょう): decrease, reduction, decline 減点(げんてん): subtract, give a demerit 削減(さくげん): cut, reduction, curtailment 加減(かげん): addition and subtraction, degree, extent, measure, chance 増減(ぞうげん): increase and decrease, fluctuation 減らす(へらす): abate, decrease, diminish, shorten 減る(へる): decrease (in size or number), diminish, abate Kunyomi: へ.る、へ.らす Onyomi: ゲン Lesson: 16 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 減らす (へ.らす), 減る (へ.る)	dwindle 減 画数12 391 Details Story Dictionary 減 dwindle Heisig's A group of unquenchable mouths sets out on a march across the country, drinking water wherever they find it until the water supply has dwindled to a trickle, triggering a national disaster. Koohii #1 When WATER was tossed on the PROTESTORS (a march of mouths), the numbers began to DWINDLE. Koohii #2 When water supplies dwindled, the population became a horde of dry mouths, marching to seize the water in the neighboring kingdom. Primitives dwindle, water, water droplets, water pistol, march, mouth いい加減(いいかげん): moderate, right, random, not thorough, vague, irresponsible, halfhearted 軽減(けいげん): abatement 減少(げんしょう): decrease, reduction, decline 減点(げんてん): subtract, give a demerit 削減(さくげん): cut, reduction, curtailment 加減(かげん): addition and subtraction, degree, extent, measure, chance 増減(ぞうげん): increase and decrease, fluctuation 減らす(へらす): abate, decrease, diminish, shorten 減る(へる): decrease (in size or number), diminish, abate Kunyomi: へ.る、へ.らす Onyomi: ゲン Lesson: 16 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 減らす (へ.らす), 減る (へ.る)
revile Details Story Dictionary 蔑 revile Heisig's The verbal abuse involved in reviling those who do not deserve it can be compared to a march of flowers in full boom having an eyeball of nastiness cast over them (literally, of course). Koohii #1 They gays were reviled by society, so they put flowers above their eyes and marched around. Koohii #2 In Northern Ireland, bitter religious groups revile their opponents by marching defiantly under their very eye, holding flowers that symbolize their beliefs. Primitives revile, flowers, eye, cross-eyed, net, march 軽蔑(けいべつ): scorn, disdain Kunyomi: ないがしろ、なみ.する、くらい、さげす.む Onyomi: ベツ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 蔑む (さげす.む)	revile 蔑 画数14 392 Details Story Dictionary 蔑 revile Heisig's The verbal abuse involved in reviling those who do not deserve it can be compared to a march of flowers in full boom having an eyeball of nastiness cast over them (literally, of course). Koohii #1 They gays were reviled by society, so they put flowers above their eyes and marched around. Koohii #2 In Northern Ireland, bitter religious groups revile their opponents by marching defiantly under their very eye, holding flowers that symbolize their beliefs. Primitives revile, flowers, eye, cross-eyed, net, march 軽蔑(けいべつ): scorn, disdain Kunyomi: ないがしろ、なみ.する、くらい、さげす.む Onyomi: ベツ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 蔑む (さげす.む)
scaffold Details Story Dictionary 桟 scaffold Heisig's Prior to the use of metal, trees were once cut down and bound together for use as scaffolding material. In the case of this kanji, what is being constructed is not a skyscraper but a simple float. Koohii #1 Japanese festival floats are often so tall they need wood scaffolds to be completed. (http://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5909.html). Koohii #2 You need a SCAFFOLD made of WOOD to build a FLOAT if it will be several stories high. Primitives scaffold, tree, wood, float, fiesta 桟橋(さんきょう): wharf, bridge, jetty, pier Kunyomi: かけはし Onyomi: サン、セン Lesson: 16 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	scaffold 桟 画数10 393 Details Story Dictionary 桟 scaffold Heisig's Prior to the use of metal, trees were once cut down and bound together for use as scaffolding material. In the case of this kanji, what is being constructed is not a skyscraper but a simple float. Koohii #1 Japanese festival floats are often so tall they need wood scaffolds to be completed. (http://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5909.html). Koohii #2 You need a SCAFFOLD made of WOOD to build a FLOAT if it will be several stories high. Primitives scaffold, tree, wood, float, fiesta 桟橋(さんきょう): wharf, bridge, jetty, pier Kunyomi: かけはし Onyomi: サン、セン Lesson: 16 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
coin Details Story Dictionary 銭 coin Heisig's Those special gold-colored tokens minted each year for the Mardi Gras and thrown into the crowds from people on the floats give us the kanji for coins. Koohii #1 Political hopefuls in Rome threw gold COINS from floats when they were campaigning for office. Koohii #2 Interesting fact: The Japanese one yen coin is the only coin in the world that can float on water. http://www.hanamiweb.com/floatingyen.jpg. Primitives coin, metal, gold, float, fiesta 小銭(こぜに): coins, small change 金銭(きんせん): money, cash Kunyomi: ぜに、すき Onyomi: セン、ゼン Lesson: 16 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 銭 (ぜに)	coin 銭 画数14 394 Details Story Dictionary 銭 coin Heisig's Those special gold-colored tokens minted each year for the Mardi Gras and thrown into the crowds from people on the floats give us the kanji for coins. Koohii #1 Political hopefuls in Rome threw gold COINS from floats when they were campaigning for office. Koohii #2 Interesting fact: The Japanese one yen coin is the only coin in the world that can float on water. http://www.hanamiweb.com/floatingyen.jpg. Primitives coin, metal, gold, float, fiesta 小銭(こぜに): coins, small change 金銭(きんせん): money, cash Kunyomi: ぜに、すき Onyomi: セン、ゼン Lesson: 16 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 銭 (ぜに)
shallow Details Story Dictionary 浅 shallow Heisig's An entourage of floats going from one town to the next must always seek a shallow place to cross the water. Try to picture what happens if they don't. Koohii #1 The water can´t be too SHALLOW if you expect to float. Koohii #2 The water isn´t shallow enough to ford (#372). We´ll have to cross by float! Primitives shallow, water, water droplets, water pistol, float, fiesta 浅ましい(あさましい): wretched, miserable, shameful, mean, despicable, abject 浅い(あさい): shallow, superficial Kunyomi: あさ.い Onyomi: セン Lesson: 16 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 浅い (あさ.い)	shallow 浅 画数9 395 Details Story Dictionary 浅 shallow Heisig's An entourage of floats going from one town to the next must always seek a shallow place to cross the water. Try to picture what happens if they don't. Koohii #1 The water can´t be too SHALLOW if you expect to float. Koohii #2 The water isn´t shallow enough to ford (#372). We´ll have to cross by float! Primitives shallow, water, water droplets, water pistol, float, fiesta 浅ましい(あさましい): wretched, miserable, shameful, mean, despicable, abject 浅い(あさい): shallow, superficial Kunyomi: あさ.い Onyomi: セン Lesson: 16 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 浅い (あさ.い)
stop Details Story Dictionary 止 stop Heisig's The character for stop is easiest to learn as a pictograph, though you have to take a moment to see it. Take it as a rather crude drawing of a footprint: the first 3 strokes represent the front of the foot and the last the heel. The big toe (stroke 2 sticking out to the right) on the right indicates that this is a left foot. * Although the meaning of stop will be retained, we will return often to the pictographic meaning of footprint. Koohii #1 If you find in the ground a walking stick with a magic wand, STOP! Maybe it´s some kind of macumba/black magic/voodoo bad thing. Koohii #2 If you don´t remember this one from the 10,000,000 STOP signs on roads all over Japan, you´re beyyond help! Primitives stop, footprint 受け止める(うけとめる): to catch, to stop the blow, to react to, to take 静止(せいし): stillness, repose, standing still 阻止(そし): obstruction, check, hindrance, prevention, interdiction 止まる(とどまる): to be limited to 止める(とどめる): to stop, to cease, to put an end to 廃止(はいし): abolition, repeal 止むを得ない(やむをえない): cannot be helped, unavoidable 呼び止める(よびとめる): to challenge, to call somebody to halt 禁止(きんし): prohibition, ban 立ち止まる(たちどまる): stop, halt, stand still 中止(ちゅうし): suspension, stoppage, discontinuance, interruption 停止(ていし): suspension, interruption, stoppage, ban, standstill, deadlock, stalemate, abeyance 引き止める(ひきとめる): detain, restrain 防止(ぼうし): prevention, check 止む(やむ): stop (e.g. rain) 止める(やめる): quit smoking 止す(よす): cease, abolish, resign, give up 止まる(とまる): come to a halt Kunyomi: と.まる、-ど.まり、と.める、-と.める、-ど.め、とど.める、とど.め、とど.まる、や.める、や.む、-や.む、よ.す、-さ.す、-さ.し Onyomi: シ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 止まる (と.まる), 止める (と.める)	stop 止 画数4 396 Details Story Dictionary 止 stop Heisig's The character for stop is easiest to learn as a pictograph, though you have to take a moment to see it. Take it as a rather crude drawing of a footprint: the first 3 strokes represent the front of the foot and the last the heel. The big toe (stroke 2 sticking out to the right) on the right indicates that this is a left foot. * Although the meaning of stop will be retained, we will return often to the pictographic meaning of footprint. Koohii #1 If you find in the ground a walking stick with a magic wand, STOP! Maybe it´s some kind of macumba/black magic/voodoo bad thing. Koohii #2 If you don´t remember this one from the 10,000,000 STOP signs on roads all over Japan, you´re beyyond help! Primitives stop, footprint 受け止める(うけとめる): to catch, to stop the blow, to react to, to take 静止(せいし): stillness, repose, standing still 阻止(そし): obstruction, check, hindrance, prevention, interdiction 止まる(とどまる): to be limited to 止める(とどめる): to stop, to cease, to put an end to 廃止(はいし): abolition, repeal 止むを得ない(やむをえない): cannot be helped, unavoidable 呼び止める(よびとめる): to challenge, to call somebody to halt 禁止(きんし): prohibition, ban 立ち止まる(たちどまる): stop, halt, stand still 中止(ちゅうし): suspension, stoppage, discontinuance, interruption 停止(ていし): suspension, interruption, stoppage, ban, standstill, deadlock, stalemate, abeyance 引き止める(ひきとめる): detain, restrain 防止(ぼうし): prevention, check 止む(やむ): stop (e.g. rain) 止める(やめる): quit smoking 止す(よす): cease, abolish, resign, give up 止まる(とまる): come to a halt Kunyomi: と.まる、-ど.まり、と.める、-と.める、-ど.め、とど.める、とど.め、とど.まる、や.める、や.む、-や.む、よ.す、-さ.す、-さ.し Onyomi: シ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 止まる (と.まる), 止める (と.める)
walk Details Story Dictionary 歩 walk Heisig's Footprints that follow one another a few at a time indicate walking. Koohii #1 When walking your pet, you must stop a few times along the way when nature calls. Koohii #2 When you learn to walk, you take your steps a few at a time. Picture a clumsy but happy toddler who falls every few steps but keeps getting up to try again. Primitives walk, stop, footprint, few 歩み(あゆみ): walking 歩む(あゆむ): to walk, to go on foot 譲歩(じょうほ): concession, conciliation, compromise 徒歩(とほ): walking, going on foot 歩(ふ): pawn (in chess or shogi) 進歩(しんぽ): progress, development 歩道(ほどう): footpath, walkway, sidewalk 歩く(あるく): to walk 散歩(さんぽ): walk, stroll Kunyomi: ある.く、あゆ.む Onyomi: ホ、ブ、フ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 歩道 (ほどう), 徒歩 (とほ), 進歩 (しんぽ), 歩合 (ぶあい), 日歩 (ひぶ), 歩む (あゆ.む), 歩く (ある.く)	walk 歩 画数8 397 Details Story Dictionary 歩 walk Heisig's Footprints that follow one another a few at a time indicate walking. Koohii #1 When walking your pet, you must stop a few times along the way when nature calls. Koohii #2 When you learn to walk, you take your steps a few at a time. Picture a clumsy but happy toddler who falls every few steps but keeps getting up to try again. Primitives walk, stop, footprint, few 歩み(あゆみ): walking 歩む(あゆむ): to walk, to go on foot 譲歩(じょうほ): concession, conciliation, compromise 徒歩(とほ): walking, going on foot 歩(ふ): pawn (in chess or shogi) 進歩(しんぽ): progress, development 歩道(ほどう): footpath, walkway, sidewalk 歩く(あるく): to walk 散歩(さんぽ): walk, stroll Kunyomi: ある.く、あゆ.む Onyomi: ホ、ブ、フ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 歩道 (ほどう), 徒歩 (とほ), 進歩 (しんぽ), 歩合 (ぶあい), 日歩 (ひぶ), 歩む (あゆ.む), 歩く (ある.く)
ford Details Story Dictionary 渉 ford Heisig's To ford a body of water means to walk across it. Koohii #1 The new Ford Jesus. It can do everything except WALK on WATER. Koohii #2 A ford is a place where one can walk through the water, a place only a few footsteps deep. Primitives ford, water, water droplets, water pistol, walk, stop, footprint, few 干渉(かんしょう): interference, intervention 交渉(こうしょう): negotiations, discussions, connection Kunyomi: わた.る Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	ford 渉 画数11 398 Details Story Dictionary 渉 ford Heisig's To ford a body of water means to walk across it. Koohii #1 The new Ford Jesus. It can do everything except WALK on WATER. Koohii #2 A ford is a place where one can walk through the water, a place only a few footsteps deep. Primitives ford, water, water droplets, water pistol, walk, stop, footprint, few 干渉(かんしょう): interference, intervention 交渉(こうしょう): negotiations, discussions, connection Kunyomi: わた.る Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"repeatedly Details Story Dictionary 頻 repeatedly Heisig's The image of something occurring repeatedly, over and over again, is of having one's head walked on. Koohii #1 I repeatedly walk around hoping this kanji will come into my head. I repeatedly walk around hoping this kanji will come into my head. I repeatedly walk around hoping this kanji will come into my head. I repeatedly walk around hoping this kanji will come into my head. I repeatedly walk around hoping this kanji will come into my head. Koohii #2 Are you familiar with the joke about the ditzy secretary who repeatedly walked back and forth forcibly over all the pages of her boss´ most important letters. When confronted she just says ""Well you said they needed to be stamped before they´re mailed."". Primitives repeatedly, walk, stop, footprint, few, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 頻繁(ひんぱん): frequency Kunyomi: しき.りに Onyomi: ヒン Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"repeatedly 頻 画数17 399 Details Story Dictionary 頻 repeatedly Heisig's The image of something occurring repeatedly, over and over again, is of having one's head walked on. Koohii #1 I repeatedly walk around hoping this kanji will come into my head. I repeatedly walk around hoping this kanji will come into my head. I repeatedly walk around hoping this kanji will come into my head. I repeatedly walk around hoping this kanji will come into my head. I repeatedly walk around hoping this kanji will come into my head. Koohii #2 Are you familiar with the joke about the ditzy secretary who repeatedly walked back and forth forcibly over all the pages of her boss´ most important letters. When confronted she just says ""Well you said they needed to be stamped before they´re mailed."". Primitives repeatedly, walk, stop, footprint, few, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 頻繁(ひんぱん): frequency Kunyomi: しき.りに Onyomi: ヒン Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
agreement Details Story Dictionary 肯 agreement Heisig's Seeing footprints on someone's flesh indicates a rather brutal way of having secured that person's agreement. Koohii #1 A secret agreement between a covert gov´t agency and aliens states that we will not step foot on the moon again in return for alien technology. Koohii #2 NASA and Armstrong made an agreement: They´d never tell anyone that no-one actually stepped foot on the moon. Primitives agreement, stop, footprint, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 肯定(こうてい): positive, affirmation Kunyomi: がえんじ.る Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	agreement 肯 画数8 400 Details Story Dictionary 肯 agreement Heisig's Seeing footprints on someone's flesh indicates a rather brutal way of having secured that person's agreement. Koohii #1 A secret agreement between a covert gov´t agency and aliens states that we will not step foot on the moon again in return for alien technology. Koohii #2 NASA and Armstrong made an agreement: They´d never tell anyone that no-one actually stepped foot on the moon. Primitives agreement, stop, footprint, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 肯定(こうてい): positive, affirmation Kunyomi: がえんじ.る Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
undertake Details Story Dictionary 企 undertake My Story In Resident Evil, you UNDERTAKE a mission to STOP UMBRELLA from infecting the country with the T-Virus. The Undertaker is an evil WWE wrestler - he beat his opponent with an *umbrella* until he stopped *moving*. Koohii #1 Mary Poppins floated down with her umbrella to undertake the job of stopping the children´s misbehaving. Koohii #2 The Undertaker is an evil WWE wrestler - he beat his opponent with an umbrella until he stopped moving. Primitives undertake, umbrella, stop, footprint 企画(きかく): planning, project 企業(きぎょう): enterprise, undertaking Kunyomi: くわだ.てる、たくら.む Onyomi: キ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 企てる (くわだ.てる)	undertake 企 画数6 401 Details Story Dictionary 企 undertake My Story In Resident Evil, you UNDERTAKE a mission to STOP UMBRELLA from infecting the country with the T-Virus. The Undertaker is an evil WWE wrestler - he beat his opponent with an *umbrella* until he stopped *moving*. Koohii #1 Mary Poppins floated down with her umbrella to undertake the job of stopping the children´s misbehaving. Koohii #2 The Undertaker is an evil WWE wrestler - he beat his opponent with an umbrella until he stopped moving. Primitives undertake, umbrella, stop, footprint 企画(きかく): planning, project 企業(きぎょう): enterprise, undertaking Kunyomi: くわだ.てる、たくら.む Onyomi: キ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 企てる (くわだ.てる)
curriculum Details Story Dictionary 歴 curriculum My Story [Cliff + grove {林} + stop {止}] At Extreme Schooling, our curriculum includes *cliff* diving, *grove* climbing, and time *stopping*. Koohii #1 A CURRICULUM is a calendar that replaces days with reasons to stop having fun. Koohii #2 A little like a calendar, your CV records your footsteps through time. Primitives curriculum, cliff, grove, tree, wood, stop, footprint, tree2, wood2 学歴(がくれき): academic background 経歴(けいれき): personal history, career 履歴(りれき): personal history, background, career, log 歴史(れきし): history Kunyomi: Onyomi: レキ、レッキ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	curriculum 歴 画数14 402 Details Story Dictionary 歴 curriculum My Story [Cliff + grove {林} + stop {止}] At Extreme Schooling, our curriculum includes *cliff* diving, *grove* climbing, and time *stopping*. Koohii #1 A CURRICULUM is a calendar that replaces days with reasons to stop having fun. Koohii #2 A little like a calendar, your CV records your footsteps through time. Primitives curriculum, cliff, grove, tree, wood, stop, footprint, tree2, wood2 学歴(がくれき): academic background 経歴(けいれき): personal history, career 履歴(りれき): personal history, background, career, log 歴史(れきし): history Kunyomi: Onyomi: レキ、レッキ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
warrior Details Story Dictionary 武 warrior Heisig's With a quiver of arrows set on one's back, the goal of the warrior depicted here is not to attack but merely to stop the attack of others: the oldest excuse in history! Koohii #1 ONE-ARROW can STOP a warrior. Koohii #2 A great warrior can stop any 0pponent with one arrow. Primitives warrior, one, arrow, stop, footprint 武装(ぶそう): arms, armament, armed 武力(ぶりょく): armed might, military power, the sword, force 武器(ぶき): weapon, arms, ordinance 武士(ぶし): warrior, samurai Kunyomi: たけ.し Onyomi: ブ、ム Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 武力 (ぶりょく), 武士 (ぶし), 文武 (ぶんぶ)	warrior 武 画数8 403 Details Story Dictionary 武 warrior Heisig's With a quiver of arrows set on one's back, the goal of the warrior depicted here is not to attack but merely to stop the attack of others: the oldest excuse in history! Koohii #1 ONE-ARROW can STOP a warrior. Koohii #2 A great warrior can stop any 0pponent with one arrow. Primitives warrior, one, arrow, stop, footprint 武装(ぶそう): arms, armament, armed 武力(ぶりょく): armed might, military power, the sword, force 武器(ぶき): weapon, arms, ordinance 武士(ぶし): warrior, samurai Kunyomi: たけ.し Onyomi: ブ、ム Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 武力 (ぶりょく), 武士 (ぶし), 文武 (ぶんぶ)
levy Details Story Dictionary 賦 levy Heisig's A certain portion of shells (money) is collected by the warrior from the local villages as he passes through to defray the costs of keeping the land safe, and this is called a levy. Koohii #1 A warrior stands guard at a bridge collecting shells as a levy for any who want to pass. Koohii #2 Drove my Chevy to the levy but the levy was dry. And those good old warrior boys, drinking whiskey and rye, said pay up the clams or you´ll die. Pay up the clams or you´ll die.... Primitives levy, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, warrior, one, stop, footprint, arrow 月賦(げっぷ): monthly installment Kunyomi: Onyomi: フ、ブ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	levy 賦 画数15 404 Details Story Dictionary 賦 levy Heisig's A certain portion of shells (money) is collected by the warrior from the local villages as he passes through to defray the costs of keeping the land safe, and this is called a levy. Koohii #1 A warrior stands guard at a bridge collecting shells as a levy for any who want to pass. Koohii #2 Drove my Chevy to the levy but the levy was dry. And those good old warrior boys, drinking whiskey and rye, said pay up the clams or you´ll die. Pay up the clams or you´ll die.... Primitives levy, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, warrior, one, stop, footprint, arrow 月賦(げっぷ): monthly installment Kunyomi: Onyomi: フ、ブ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"correct Details Story Dictionary 正 correct Heisig's ""A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step,"" says the Chinese proverb. Here we see one footprint, complementing that proverb with the sound advice that if the first step is not made correctly, the whole point of the journey will be forfeited. This is the ideal that teachers are supposed to have in correcting their students, and parents in correcting their children. Koohii #1 If you do it correct on the first attempt you can stop. Koohii #2 The correct way of learning Japanese? First, stop everything you´re doing. Then, go pick up a copy of Heisig´s book and work from there. Primitives correct, one, ceiling, stop, footprint 正解(せいかい): correct, right, correct interpretation (answer solution) 正規(せいき): regular, legal, formal, established, legitimate 正義(せいぎ): justice, right, righteousness, correct meaning 正常(せいじょう): normalcy, normality, normal 正当(せいとう): just, justifiable, right, due, proper, equitable, reasonable, legitimate, lawful 正門(せいもん): main gate, main entrance 是正(ぜせい): correction, revision 訂正(ていせい): correction, revision 正しく(まさしく): surely, no doubt, evidently 正に(まさに): correctly, surely 改正(かいせい): revision, amendment, alteration 公正(こうせい): justice, fairness, impartiality 修正(しゅうせい): amendment, correction, revision 正午(しょうご): noon, mid-day 正直(しょうじき): honesty, integrity, frankness 正味(しょうみ): net (weight) 正面(しょうめん): front, frontage, facade, main 正(せい): (logical) true, regular 正確(せいかく): accurate, punctual, exact, authentic, veracious 正式(せいしき): due form, official, formality 正方形(せいほうけい): square 不正(ふせい): injustice, unfairness, iniquity, impropriety, irregularity, dishonesty, illegality 正しい(ただしい): right, correct Kunyomi: ただ.しい、ただ.す、まさ、まさ.に Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 正義 (せいぎ), 正誤 (せいご), 訂正 (ていせい), 正しい (ただ.しい), 正す (ただ.す), 正 (まさ)"	"correct 正 画数5 405 Details Story Dictionary 正 correct Heisig's ""A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step,"" says the Chinese proverb. Here we see one footprint, complementing that proverb with the sound advice that if the first step is not made correctly, the whole point of the journey will be forfeited. This is the ideal that teachers are supposed to have in correcting their students, and parents in correcting their children. Koohii #1 If you do it correct on the first attempt you can stop. Koohii #2 The correct way of learning Japanese? First, stop everything you´re doing. Then, go pick up a copy of Heisig´s book and work from there. Primitives correct, one, ceiling, stop, footprint 正解(せいかい): correct, right, correct interpretation (answer solution) 正規(せいき): regular, legal, formal, established, legitimate 正義(せいぎ): justice, right, righteousness, correct meaning 正常(せいじょう): normalcy, normality, normal 正当(せいとう): just, justifiable, right, due, proper, equitable, reasonable, legitimate, lawful 正門(せいもん): main gate, main entrance 是正(ぜせい): correction, revision 訂正(ていせい): correction, revision 正しく(まさしく): surely, no doubt, evidently 正に(まさに): correctly, surely 改正(かいせい): revision, amendment, alteration 公正(こうせい): justice, fairness, impartiality 修正(しゅうせい): amendment, correction, revision 正午(しょうご): noon, mid-day 正直(しょうじき): honesty, integrity, frankness 正味(しょうみ): net (weight) 正面(しょうめん): front, frontage, facade, main 正(せい): (logical) true, regular 正確(せいかく): accurate, punctual, exact, authentic, veracious 正式(せいしき): due form, official, formality 正方形(せいほうけい): square 不正(ふせい): injustice, unfairness, iniquity, impropriety, irregularity, dishonesty, illegality 正しい(ただしい): right, correct Kunyomi: ただ.しい、ただ.す、まさ、まさ.に Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 正義 (せいぎ), 正誤 (せいご), 訂正 (ていせい), 正しい (ただ.しい), 正す (ただ.す), 正 (まさ)"
"evidence Details Story Dictionary 証 evidence Heisig's Words that testify to the correctness of some fact are classified as evidence. (Here we see a good example of how the more common primitive element takes the ""strong"" position to the left, even though it has more strokes.) Koohii #1 Your words must be absolutely correct if you plan to use them as evidence. Koohii #2 If what you say is indeed correct, we could use use your testimony as evidence. Primitives evidence, say, words, keitai, mouth, correct, one, ceiling, stop, footprint 証(あかし): proof, evidence 証言(しょうげん): evidence, testimony 証拠(しょうこ): evidence, proof 証人(しょうにん): witness 証明(しょうめい): proof, verification 保証(ほしょう): guarantee, security, assurance, pledge, warranty Kunyomi: あかし Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 証 (あかし)"	"evidence 証 画数12 406 Details Story Dictionary 証 evidence Heisig's Words that testify to the correctness of some fact are classified as evidence. (Here we see a good example of how the more common primitive element takes the ""strong"" position to the left, even though it has more strokes.) Koohii #1 Your words must be absolutely correct if you plan to use them as evidence. Koohii #2 If what you say is indeed correct, we could use use your testimony as evidence. Primitives evidence, say, words, keitai, mouth, correct, one, ceiling, stop, footprint 証(あかし): proof, evidence 証言(しょうげん): evidence, testimony 証拠(しょうこ): evidence, proof 証人(しょうにん): witness 証明(しょうめい): proof, verification 保証(ほしょう): guarantee, security, assurance, pledge, warranty Kunyomi: あかし Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 証 (あかし)"
politics Details Story Dictionary 政 politics My Story [Correct {正} + Director] To elect the *correct* *director* is the aim of politics. Koohii #1 Those involved in politics are always trying to elect the correct taskmaster. Koohii #2 Insane political correctness on the left, and facists taskmasters on the right- thats politics in a nutshell right there. Primitives politics, correct, one, ceiling, stop, footprint, taskmaster 行政(ぎょうせい): administration 財政(ざいせい): economy, financial affairs 政権(せいけん): administration, political power 政策(せいさく): political measures, policy 政党(せいとう): (member of) political party 政府(せいふ): government, administration 政治(せいじ): politic Kunyomi: まつりごと、まん Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 政治 (せいじ), 行政 (ぎょうせい), 家政 (かせい), 政 (まつりごと)	politics 政 画数9 407 Details Story Dictionary 政 politics My Story [Correct {正} + Director] To elect the *correct* *director* is the aim of politics. Koohii #1 Those involved in politics are always trying to elect the correct taskmaster. Koohii #2 Insane political correctness on the left, and facists taskmasters on the right- thats politics in a nutshell right there. Primitives politics, correct, one, ceiling, stop, footprint, taskmaster 行政(ぎょうせい): administration 財政(ざいせい): economy, financial affairs 政権(せいけん): administration, political power 政策(せいさく): political measures, policy 政党(せいとう): (member of) political party 政府(せいふ): government, administration 政治(せいじ): politic Kunyomi: まつりごと、まん Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 政治 (せいじ), 行政 (ぎょうせい), 家政 (かせい), 政 (まつりごと)
"determine Details Story Dictionary 定 determine Heisig's Determination, in the sense of settling on a certain course of action, is likened here to mending one's house. Koohii #1 In The Karate Kid, the boy must prove his determination by MENDING his teacher´s HOUSE in various ways. Koohii #2 People who decide to renovate (ooh, that´s a fancy word, let´s say ""mend"") their houses must be very determined DIYers. (Using DIY helps me remember this story when I see DEtermine). Primitives determine, house, mend 案の定(あんのじょう): sure enough, as usual 一定(いちじょう): fixed, settled, definite, uniform, regularized, defined, standardized, certain, prescribed 改定(かいてい): reform 確定(かくてい): definition (math), decision, settlement 規定(きてい): regulation, provisions 協定(きょうてい): arrangement, pact, agreement 限定(げんてい): limit, restriction 国定(こくてい): state-sponsored, national 固定(こてい): fixation 定まる(さだまる): to become settled, to be fixed 定める(さだめる): to decide, to establish, to determine 所定(しょてい): fixed, prescribed 制定(せいてい): enactment, establishment, creation 設定(せってい): establishment, creation 定義(ていぎ): definition 定食(ていしょく): set meal, special (of the day) 定年(ていねん): retirement age 判定(はんてい): judgement, decision, award, verdict 未定(みてい): not yet fixed, undecided, pending 安定(あんてい): stability, equilibrium 一定(いってい): fixed, settled, definite, uniform, regularized, standardized, prescribed 仮定(かてい): assumption, supposition, hypothesis 勘定(かんじょう): calculation, settlement of an account, allowance 決定(けってい): decision, determination 肯定(こうてい): positive, affirmation 指定(してい): designation, specification, assignment, pointing at 定規(じょうぎ): (measuring) ruler 推定(すいてい): presumption, assumption, estimation 測定(そくてい): measurement 断定(だんてい): conclusion, decision 定員(ていいん): fixed number of regular personnel, capacity (of boat, hall, aeroplane, etc.) 定価(ていか): established price 定期(ていき): fixed term 定期券(ていきけん): commuter pass, season ticket 定休日(ていきゅうび): regular holiday 特定(とくてい): specific, special, particular 否定(ひてい): negation, denial, repudiation 予定(よてい): plan Kunyomi: さだ.める、さだ.まる、さだ.か Onyomi: テイ、ジョウ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 定価 (ていか), 安定 (あんてい), 決定 (けってい), 定か (さだ.か), 定まる (さだ.まる), 定める (さだ.める)"	"determine 定 画数8 408 Details Story Dictionary 定 determine Heisig's Determination, in the sense of settling on a certain course of action, is likened here to mending one's house. Koohii #1 In The Karate Kid, the boy must prove his determination by MENDING his teacher´s HOUSE in various ways. Koohii #2 People who decide to renovate (ooh, that´s a fancy word, let´s say ""mend"") their houses must be very determined DIYers. (Using DIY helps me remember this story when I see DEtermine). Primitives determine, house, mend 案の定(あんのじょう): sure enough, as usual 一定(いちじょう): fixed, settled, definite, uniform, regularized, defined, standardized, certain, prescribed 改定(かいてい): reform 確定(かくてい): definition (math), decision, settlement 規定(きてい): regulation, provisions 協定(きょうてい): arrangement, pact, agreement 限定(げんてい): limit, restriction 国定(こくてい): state-sponsored, national 固定(こてい): fixation 定まる(さだまる): to become settled, to be fixed 定める(さだめる): to decide, to establish, to determine 所定(しょてい): fixed, prescribed 制定(せいてい): enactment, establishment, creation 設定(せってい): establishment, creation 定義(ていぎ): definition 定食(ていしょく): set meal, special (of the day) 定年(ていねん): retirement age 判定(はんてい): judgement, decision, award, verdict 未定(みてい): not yet fixed, undecided, pending 安定(あんてい): stability, equilibrium 一定(いってい): fixed, settled, definite, uniform, regularized, standardized, prescribed 仮定(かてい): assumption, supposition, hypothesis 勘定(かんじょう): calculation, settlement of an account, allowance 決定(けってい): decision, determination 肯定(こうてい): positive, affirmation 指定(してい): designation, specification, assignment, pointing at 定規(じょうぎ): (measuring) ruler 推定(すいてい): presumption, assumption, estimation 測定(そくてい): measurement 断定(だんてい): conclusion, decision 定員(ていいん): fixed number of regular personnel, capacity (of boat, hall, aeroplane, etc.) 定価(ていか): established price 定期(ていき): fixed term 定期券(ていきけん): commuter pass, season ticket 定休日(ていきゅうび): regular holiday 特定(とくてい): specific, special, particular 否定(ひてい): negation, denial, repudiation 予定(よてい): plan Kunyomi: さだ.める、さだ.まる、さだ.か Onyomi: テイ、ジョウ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 定価 (ていか), 安定 (あんてい), 決定 (けってい), 定か (さだ.か), 定まる (さだ.まる), 定める (さだ.める)"
lock Details Story Dictionary 錠 lock Heisig's Metal of itself doesn't lock. It needs to be so determined by a locksmith. Now make a concrete image of that. Koohii #1 Even if you lock up your GOLD, a DETERMINED thief will get it in the end. Koohii #2 The best stories for this kanji tend to have a thief in them, which always makes me confuse them with the kanji for burglar (357). So, let´s try this one: My girlfriend wears a metal chastity belt with a lock but I am determined to open it! I must get inside! Primitives lock, metal, gold, determine, determined, house, mend 手錠(てじょう): handcuffs, manacles Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	lock 錠 画数16 409 Details Story Dictionary 錠 lock Heisig's Metal of itself doesn't lock. It needs to be so determined by a locksmith. Now make a concrete image of that. Koohii #1 Even if you lock up your GOLD, a DETERMINED thief will get it in the end. Koohii #2 The best stories for this kanji tend to have a thief in them, which always makes me confuse them with the kanji for burglar (357). So, let´s try this one: My girlfriend wears a metal chastity belt with a lock but I am determined to open it! I must get inside! Primitives lock, metal, gold, determine, determined, house, mend 手錠(てじょう): handcuffs, manacles Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
run Details Story Dictionary 走 run Heisig's Running, we are told here, mends the soil. Observe in the following frames how this kanji can embrace other elements from below, much the same way as the element for road does; and how, in order to do this, the final stroke needs to be lengthened. Koohii #1 Hint: This kanji is NOT soil on top of mend, as Heisig claims - that would duplicate one of the strokes. Instead, it is 10 on top of mend. So my story is: If you run 10 miles, you will need to mend your socks! Koohii #2 The sports ground needs MENDING after the game as the players have been RUNNING around which has caused the ground to be chopped up. Primitives run, soil, dirt, ground, mend 御馳走(ごちそう): feast, treating (someone) ご馳走さま(ごちそうさま): feast 走行(そうこう): running a wheeled vehicle (e.g. car), traveling 逃走(とうそう): flight, desertion, escape 走る(はしる): to run Kunyomi: はし.る Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 走る (はし.る)	run 走 画数7 410 Details Story Dictionary 走 run Heisig's Running, we are told here, mends the soil. Observe in the following frames how this kanji can embrace other elements from below, much the same way as the element for road does; and how, in order to do this, the final stroke needs to be lengthened. Koohii #1 Hint: This kanji is NOT soil on top of mend, as Heisig claims - that would duplicate one of the strokes. Instead, it is 10 on top of mend. So my story is: If you run 10 miles, you will need to mend your socks! Koohii #2 The sports ground needs MENDING after the game as the players have been RUNNING around which has caused the ground to be chopped up. Primitives run, soil, dirt, ground, mend 御馳走(ごちそう): feast, treating (someone) ご馳走さま(ごちそうさま): feast 走行(そうこう): running a wheeled vehicle (e.g. car), traveling 逃走(とうそう): flight, desertion, escape 走る(はしる): to run Kunyomi: はし.る Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 走る (はし.る)
transcend Details Story Dictionary 超 transcend Heisig's When one is running after something, the goal that seduces one is said to transcend the seeker. Koohii #1 A successful marathon runner needs to be able to transcend seductions, such as the possibility of rest, shelter from the rain, or a cold beer. Koohii #2 To transcend oneself is to reach a higher plane of reality. A head shaven monk is telling me this. We are in a Tibetan monastery. He was once an athlete, a runner. He used to run everywhere, until one day, he saw a beautiful cheerleader along his path. She tried very hard to seduce him, but he forced himself to transcend his urges. He did reach his running goal, and he has became a lonely monk. He wishes now he had just broken down back then and.... Primitives transcend, run, soil, dirt, ground, mend, summon, seduce, sword, dagger, mouth 超える(こえる): to cross over, to cross, to pass through, to pass over (out of) 超(ちょう): super-, ultra-, hyper- 超す(こす): cross, pass, tide over 超過(ちょうか): excess, being more than Kunyomi: こ.える、こ.す Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 超える (こ.える), 超す (こ.す)	transcend 超 画数12 411 Details Story Dictionary 超 transcend Heisig's When one is running after something, the goal that seduces one is said to transcend the seeker. Koohii #1 A successful marathon runner needs to be able to transcend seductions, such as the possibility of rest, shelter from the rain, or a cold beer. Koohii #2 To transcend oneself is to reach a higher plane of reality. A head shaven monk is telling me this. We are in a Tibetan monastery. He was once an athlete, a runner. He used to run everywhere, until one day, he saw a beautiful cheerleader along his path. She tried very hard to seduce him, but he forced himself to transcend his urges. He did reach his running goal, and he has became a lonely monk. He wishes now he had just broken down back then and.... Primitives transcend, run, soil, dirt, ground, mend, summon, seduce, sword, dagger, mouth 超える(こえる): to cross over, to cross, to pass through, to pass over (out of) 超(ちょう): super-, ultra-, hyper- 超す(こす): cross, pass, tide over 超過(ちょうか): excess, being more than Kunyomi: こ.える、こ.す Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 超える (こ.える), 超す (こ.す)
"proceed Details Story Dictionary 赴 proceed Heisig's In proceeding to a new city or a new job, something in you runs ahead with excitement, and something else holds you back, like a divining rod built into your psyche warning you to check things out carefully before rushing in too wildly. Koohii #1 Don´t run into trouble, Dumbledore tells Harry. ""Proceed with caution with your wand out."". Koohii #2 While running, my magic wand tells me where to proceed. Primitives proceed, run, soil, dirt, ground, mend, magic wand, augury 赴く(おもむく): to go, to proceed, to repair to, to become 赴任(ふにん): (proceeding to) new appointment Kunyomi: おもむ.く Onyomi: フ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 赴く (おもむ.く)"	"proceed 赴 画数9 412 Details Story Dictionary 赴 proceed Heisig's In proceeding to a new city or a new job, something in you runs ahead with excitement, and something else holds you back, like a divining rod built into your psyche warning you to check things out carefully before rushing in too wildly. Koohii #1 Don´t run into trouble, Dumbledore tells Harry. ""Proceed with caution with your wand out."". Koohii #2 While running, my magic wand tells me where to proceed. Primitives proceed, run, soil, dirt, ground, mend, magic wand, augury 赴く(おもむく): to go, to proceed, to repair to, to become 赴任(ふにん): (proceeding to) new appointment Kunyomi: おもむ.く Onyomi: フ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 赴く (おもむ.く)"
surpass / go beyond Details Story Dictionary 越 surpass / go beyond My Story By #Going Beyond# the limits of good taste, the Nazis *ran* and *became* extinct. Koohii #1 The person in charge of running the parade surpassed all our expectations (by just a extra drop...). Koohii #2 The parade of runners are all trying to SURPASS each other - and they end up running all the way to Vietnam (note that this kanji is also used for the country of Vietnam). Primitives surpass, run, soil, dirt, ground, mend, parade 越える(こえる): to cross over, to cross, to pass through, to pass over (out of) 優越(ゆうえつ): supremacy, predominance, being superior to 追い越す(おいこす): to pass (e.g. car), outdistance 越す(こす): go over (e.g. with audience) 引越し(ひっこし): moving (dwelling, office, etc.), changing residence 引っ越す(ひっこす): move to (house) Kunyomi: こ.す、-こ.す、-ご.し、こ.える、-ご.え Onyomi: エツ、オツ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 越える (こ.える), 越す (こ.す)	surpass / go beyond 越 画数12 413 Details Story Dictionary 越 surpass / go beyond My Story By #Going Beyond# the limits of good taste, the Nazis *ran* and *became* extinct. Koohii #1 The person in charge of running the parade surpassed all our expectations (by just a extra drop...). Koohii #2 The parade of runners are all trying to SURPASS each other - and they end up running all the way to Vietnam (note that this kanji is also used for the country of Vietnam). Primitives surpass, run, soil, dirt, ground, mend, parade 越える(こえる): to cross over, to cross, to pass through, to pass over (out of) 優越(ゆうえつ): supremacy, predominance, being superior to 追い越す(おいこす): to pass (e.g. car), outdistance 越す(こす): go over (e.g. with audience) 引越し(ひっこし): moving (dwelling, office, etc.), changing residence 引っ越す(ひっこす): move to (house) Kunyomi: こ.す、-こ.す、-ご.し、こ.える、-ご.え Onyomi: エツ、オツ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 越える (こ.える), 越す (こ.す)
"just so Details Story Dictionary 是 just so Heisig's In this kanji we are shown someone spending an entire day at mending one stocking, because they want the job done ""just so."" Be sure to make a clear image of a finicky old fusspot to make the abstract idea as concrete as possible. Koohii #1 ´Sun´ ´Mend´ - It just so happens that sunshine can mend your gloomy spirits. Koohii #2 My image here is of Fabrice (the guy who runs this website) spending all day obsessively mending the code so this page looks just so.... Primitives just so, sun, day, mend 是正(ぜせい): correction, revision 是非とも(ぜひとも): by all means (with sense of not taking ""no"" for an answer) 是非(ぜひ): certainly, without fail Kunyomi: これ、この、ここ Onyomi: ゼ、シ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"just so 是 画数9 414 Details Story Dictionary 是 just so Heisig's In this kanji we are shown someone spending an entire day at mending one stocking, because they want the job done ""just so."" Be sure to make a clear image of a finicky old fusspot to make the abstract idea as concrete as possible. Koohii #1 ´Sun´ ´Mend´ - It just so happens that sunshine can mend your gloomy spirits. Koohii #2 My image here is of Fabrice (the guy who runs this website) spending all day obsessively mending the code so this page looks just so.... Primitives just so, sun, day, mend 是正(ぜせい): correction, revision 是非とも(ぜひとも): by all means (with sense of not taking ""no"" for an answer) 是非(ぜひ): certainly, without fail Kunyomi: これ、この、ここ Onyomi: ゼ、シ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"topic Details Story Dictionary 題 topic Heisig's In many kinds of research, one can find information on a given topic only if the headings are prepared just so. Koohii #1 The ""TOPIC"" of the day´s newspaper must be placed JUST SO at the top of the PAGE to attract attention. Koohii #2 You spend ALL DAY, mending your socks JUST SO. Then you have a look at the HEADING of the newspaper. The topic---FREE SOCKS TO BE GIVEN AWAY!!!! Primitives topic, just so, sun, day, mend, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 課題(かだい): subject, theme, task 議題(ぎだい): topic of discussion, agenda 主題(しゅだい): subject, theme, motif 出題(しゅつだい): proposing a question 題(だい): title, subject, theme, topic 題名(だいめい): title 話題(わだい): topic, subject 宿題(しゅくだい): homework 問題(もんだい): problem, question Kunyomi: Onyomi: ダイ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:"	"topic 題 画数18 415 Details Story Dictionary 題 topic Heisig's In many kinds of research, one can find information on a given topic only if the headings are prepared just so. Koohii #1 The ""TOPIC"" of the day´s newspaper must be placed JUST SO at the top of the PAGE to attract attention. Koohii #2 You spend ALL DAY, mending your socks JUST SO. Then you have a look at the HEADING of the newspaper. The topic---FREE SOCKS TO BE GIVEN AWAY!!!! Primitives topic, just so, sun, day, mend, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 課題(かだい): subject, theme, task 議題(ぎだい): topic of discussion, agenda 主題(しゅだい): subject, theme, motif 出題(しゅつだい): proposing a question 題(だい): title, subject, theme, topic 題名(だいめい): title 話題(わだい): topic, subject 宿題(しゅくだい): homework 問題(もんだい): problem, question Kunyomi: Onyomi: ダイ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:"
dike Details Story Dictionary 堤 dike Heisig's A dike is a successful bit of engineering only if the amount of earth piled up is measured just so for the height and pressure of the water it is meant to contain. Koohii #1 Making a dike is all about arranging the soil just so.... Koohii #2 The little Dutch boy has his finger stuck in the dike, and that´s the only thing keeping his town from going under. He really really needs to go to the bathroom though, so he devises a plan to carefully add a bit of dirt - there, place individual bits in just so - there, I think it´s good enough. Pull it out -----yes! Success! Primitives dike, soil, dirt, ground, just so, sun, day, mend 堤防(ていぼう): bank, weir Kunyomi: つつみ Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 堤 (つつみ)	dike 堤 画数12 416 Details Story Dictionary 堤 dike Heisig's A dike is a successful bit of engineering only if the amount of earth piled up is measured just so for the height and pressure of the water it is meant to contain. Koohii #1 Making a dike is all about arranging the soil just so.... Koohii #2 The little Dutch boy has his finger stuck in the dike, and that´s the only thing keeping his town from going under. He really really needs to go to the bathroom though, so he devises a plan to carefully add a bit of dirt - there, place individual bits in just so - there, I think it´s good enough. Pull it out -----yes! Success! Primitives dike, soil, dirt, ground, just so, sun, day, mend 堤防(ていぼう): bank, weir Kunyomi: つつみ Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 堤 (つつみ)
"build Details Story Dictionary 建 build My Story Before you build something you first need to *stretch out* 廴your *brush* 聿 and make plans. 廴 trad. meaning is *move*, so you could say *move* your *brush*. 建設、けんせつ, construction, building: 宇宙ステーションを建設しました, ""They built a space station."" 新体育館はまだ建設中です, ""The new gym is still under construction."" 建てる、たてる, to build: 兄は大きな家を建てました, ""My older brother built a big house."" 建物、たてもの, building. Koohii #1 Build is easy to remember if you can remember that archtiechts have two steps in building. 1. Take a brush and brush out the blueprints. 2. Get a visual image of the blueprints all rolled up like they usually are. The second step is easy, it´s just the architecht stretching out the blueprints and showing it to his clients. Koohii #2 A construction worker´s classic morning. Stretch, brush his teeth, and then start to build. Primitives build, brush, stretch 再建(さいけん): rebuilding, reconstruction, rehabilitation 建前(たてまえ): face, official stance, public position or attitude (as opposed to private thoughts) 封建(ほうけん): feudalistic 建設(けんせつ): construction, establishment 建築(けんちく): construction, architecture 建つ(たつ): build, erect 建てる(たてる): build 建物(たてもの): building Kunyomi: た.てる、た.て、-だ.て、た.つ Onyomi: ケン、コン Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 建築 (けんちく), 建議 (けんぎ), 封建的 (ほうけんてき), 建つ (た.つ), 建てる (た.てる)"	"build 建 画数9 417 Details Story Dictionary 建 build My Story Before you build something you first need to *stretch out* 廴your *brush* 聿 and make plans. 廴 trad. meaning is *move*, so you could say *move* your *brush*. 建設、けんせつ, construction, building: 宇宙ステーションを建設しました, ""They built a space station."" 新体育館はまだ建設中です, ""The new gym is still under construction."" 建てる、たてる, to build: 兄は大きな家を建てました, ""My older brother built a big house."" 建物、たてもの, building. Koohii #1 Build is easy to remember if you can remember that archtiechts have two steps in building. 1. Take a brush and brush out the blueprints. 2. Get a visual image of the blueprints all rolled up like they usually are. The second step is easy, it´s just the architecht stretching out the blueprints and showing it to his clients. Koohii #2 A construction worker´s classic morning. Stretch, brush his teeth, and then start to build. Primitives build, brush, stretch 再建(さいけん): rebuilding, reconstruction, rehabilitation 建前(たてまえ): face, official stance, public position or attitude (as opposed to private thoughts) 封建(ほうけん): feudalistic 建設(けんせつ): construction, establishment 建築(けんちく): construction, architecture 建つ(たつ): build, erect 建てる(たてる): build 建物(たてもの): building Kunyomi: た.てる、た.て、-だ.て、た.つ Onyomi: ケン、コン Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 建築 (けんちく), 建議 (けんぎ), 封建的 (ほうけんてき), 建つ (た.つ), 建てる (た.てる)"
key Details Story Dictionary 鍵 key Heisig's The golden key you have been presented by the mayor gives you access to all the buildings in the city. Koohii #1 The metal thing you need in order to enter things you build is a key. Koohii #2 鍵盤key (#2761) ケン, かぎ ... Parts: 金, 建 ... Story: The most important Metal in any building is the lock on the front door, and without a key you ain´t getting in. This kanji means both lock and key to most Japanese people. 錠前 is technically the word for lock but it´s not used in daily conversation. ... 熟語: ... cf: 錠前. Primitives key, metal, gold, build, brush, stretch 鍵(かぎ): key Kunyomi: かぎ Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 鍵 (かぎ)	key 鍵 画数17 418 Details Story Dictionary 鍵 key Heisig's The golden key you have been presented by the mayor gives you access to all the buildings in the city. Koohii #1 The metal thing you need in order to enter things you build is a key. Koohii #2 鍵盤key (#2761) ケン, かぎ ... Parts: 金, 建 ... Story: The most important Metal in any building is the lock on the front door, and without a key you ain´t getting in. This kanji means both lock and key to most Japanese people. 錠前 is technically the word for lock but it´s not used in daily conversation. ... 熟語: ... cf: 錠前. Primitives key, metal, gold, build, brush, stretch 鍵(かぎ): key Kunyomi: かぎ Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 鍵 (かぎ)
"prolong Details Story Dictionary 延 prolong Heisig's This character is a kind of pictographic image of how prolonging is a clever way of stopping things by trying to stretch them out a little bit at a time (the extra drop at the top of stop). Be sure to get a concrete image of this process, by imagining yourself prolonging something you can really, physically, stretch. Koohii #1 Stretching correctly prolongs life. Even the top part of 正 is stretching... Koohii #2 Here´s a great mnemonic: ""stop, drop, and stretch (!?)."" Now let´s associate it with ´prolong´: if you´re ever in an uncomfortable spot, like being asked tricky questions or caught in a lie, just PROLONG the situation - stop, drop, and stretch. They may be confused by your odd behaviour, but it´ll buy you a few moments to think up another good lie to get out of the sticky situation! Primitives prolong, drop, stop, footprint, stretch 延ばす(のばす): to lengthen, to stretch, to reach out, to postpone, to prolong, to extend, to grow (beard) 延びる(のびる): to be prolonged 延べ(のべ): futures, credit (buying), stretching, total 延いては(ひいては): not only...but also, in addition to, consequently 延期(えんき): postponement, adjournment 延長(えんちょう): extension, elongation, prolongation, lengthening Kunyomi: の.びる、の.べる、の.べ、の.ばす Onyomi: エン Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 延ばす (の.ばす), 延びる (の.びる), 延べる (の.べる)"	"prolong 延 画数8 419 Details Story Dictionary 延 prolong Heisig's This character is a kind of pictographic image of how prolonging is a clever way of stopping things by trying to stretch them out a little bit at a time (the extra drop at the top of stop). Be sure to get a concrete image of this process, by imagining yourself prolonging something you can really, physically, stretch. Koohii #1 Stretching correctly prolongs life. Even the top part of 正 is stretching... Koohii #2 Here´s a great mnemonic: ""stop, drop, and stretch (!?)."" Now let´s associate it with ´prolong´: if you´re ever in an uncomfortable spot, like being asked tricky questions or caught in a lie, just PROLONG the situation - stop, drop, and stretch. They may be confused by your odd behaviour, but it´ll buy you a few moments to think up another good lie to get out of the sticky situation! Primitives prolong, drop, stop, footprint, stretch 延ばす(のばす): to lengthen, to stretch, to reach out, to postpone, to prolong, to extend, to grow (beard) 延びる(のびる): to be prolonged 延べ(のべ): futures, credit (buying), stretching, total 延いては(ひいては): not only...but also, in addition to, consequently 延期(えんき): postponement, adjournment 延長(えんちょう): extension, elongation, prolongation, lengthening Kunyomi: の.びる、の.べる、の.べ、の.ばす Onyomi: エン Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 延ばす (の.ばす), 延びる (の.びる), 延べる (の.べる)"
nativity Details Story Dictionary 誕 nativity Heisig's The key word of course calls to mind the feast of Christmas. As the famous poem at the start of St. John's gospel tells us, the nativity we celebrate at Christmas had its origins at the very start of time and governs all of human history: it represents the prolongation of the eternal Word in time and space. Koohii #1 Nativity = born, being born. Think of birth as a painful and prolonged event. And of course, all the words and curses being yelled at the soon-to-be father for doing this to her! Koohii #2 When you are being born ( nativity ), your mother´s WORDS are PROLONGED. (Thiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiis huuuuuuuuuuuuuurtss a lottttttttt~!! Owwwwwww!!!). Primitives nativity, say, words, keitai, mouth, prolonged, drop, stop, footprint, stretch 誕生(たんじょう): birth 誕生日(たんじょうび): birthday Kunyomi: Onyomi: タン Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	nativity 誕 画数15 420 Details Story Dictionary 誕 nativity Heisig's The key word of course calls to mind the feast of Christmas. As the famous poem at the start of St. John's gospel tells us, the nativity we celebrate at Christmas had its origins at the very start of time and governs all of human history: it represents the prolongation of the eternal Word in time and space. Koohii #1 Nativity = born, being born. Think of birth as a painful and prolonged event. And of course, all the words and curses being yelled at the soon-to-be father for doing this to her! Koohii #2 When you are being born ( nativity ), your mother´s WORDS are PROLONGED. (Thiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiis huuuuuuuuuuuuuurtss a lottttttttt~!! Owwwwwww!!!). Primitives nativity, say, words, keitai, mouth, prolonged, drop, stop, footprint, stretch 誕生(たんじょう): birth 誕生日(たんじょうび): birthday Kunyomi: Onyomi: タン Lesson: 17 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"cornerstone Details Story Dictionary 礎 cornerstone Heisig's This character depicts a cornerstone as a stone set at the end of a wildlife preserve (the ""zoo in the grove""). Koohii #1 Features like stones and groves of trees are the cornerstones of a happy zoo. Koohii #2 A zoo which is still under construction is already full of animals. At the moment, only the cornerstone has been set in place. To temporarily keep the animals from escaping, a closely-packed grove of small trees is planted around the stone. (Note that this zoo needs some serious mending.). Primitives cornerstone, stone, rock, grove, tree, wood, zoo, critters, tree2, wood2 基礎(きそ): foundation, basis Kunyomi: いしずえ Onyomi: ソ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 礎 (いしずえ)"	"cornerstone 礎 画数18 421 Details Story Dictionary 礎 cornerstone Heisig's This character depicts a cornerstone as a stone set at the end of a wildlife preserve (the ""zoo in the grove""). Koohii #1 Features like stones and groves of trees are the cornerstones of a happy zoo. Koohii #2 A zoo which is still under construction is already full of animals. At the moment, only the cornerstone has been set in place. To temporarily keep the animals from escaping, a closely-packed grove of small trees is planted around the stone. (Note that this zoo needs some serious mending.). Primitives cornerstone, stone, rock, grove, tree, wood, zoo, critters, tree2, wood2 基礎(きそ): foundation, basis Kunyomi: いしずえ Onyomi: ソ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 礎 (いしずえ)"
"bridegroom Details Story Dictionary 婿 bridegroom Heisig's What makes a man a bridegroom is obviously a woman and her dowry, here presented as a small zoo (animals were often used for this purpose in earlier societies) and a month away from it all (the ""honeymoon""). Koohii #1 The virgin bridegroom tries to understand the new, mysterious part of his woman´s body - but with little success. It´s a zoo down there! (primitives placement: the part of the body is ´down there´ - the woman is ´left´ unsatisfied). Koohii #2 The only reason anyone talks about a bridegroom is if they´re about to or have just gotten married. Of course, then you have to go on your honeymoon. So you take your woman to the zoo for a month. Pretty cool honeymoon. Primitives bridegroom, woman, zoo, critters, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 婿(むこ): son-in-law Kunyomi: むこ Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 婿 (むこ)"	"bridegroom 婿 画数12 422 Details Story Dictionary 婿 bridegroom Heisig's What makes a man a bridegroom is obviously a woman and her dowry, here presented as a small zoo (animals were often used for this purpose in earlier societies) and a month away from it all (the ""honeymoon""). Koohii #1 The virgin bridegroom tries to understand the new, mysterious part of his woman´s body - but with little success. It´s a zoo down there! (primitives placement: the part of the body is ´down there´ - the woman is ´left´ unsatisfied). Koohii #2 The only reason anyone talks about a bridegroom is if they´re about to or have just gotten married. Of course, then you have to go on your honeymoon. So you take your woman to the zoo for a month. Pretty cool honeymoon. Primitives bridegroom, woman, zoo, critters, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 婿(むこ): son-in-law Kunyomi: むこ Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 17 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 婿 (むこ)"
"garment Details Story Dictionary 衣 garment Heisig's At the top we see the top hat, and at the bottom a pictographic representation of the folds of a garment. If you break the ""4-fold"" fold into 2 sets of 2 strokes, you will find it easier to remember. * Used as a primitive, the additional meanings of cloak or scarf will come in handy. What has to be noted particularly are the changes in shape the kanji can undergo when it becomes an element in other kanji. In fact, it is the most volatile of all the kanji we shall treat, and for that reason deserves special attention here. When it appears to the left, it looks like a hiragana ne (ネ) with an extra drop on the right, and we shall take it to mean cloak. At the bottom, when attached to the stroke immediately above it, the first two strokes (the top hat) are omitted, which we shall take to mean a scarf. On rare occasions, the element can be torn right across the middle, with the first 2 strokes appearing at the top and the last 4 at the bottom of another primitive or cluster of primitive, in which cases we shall speak of a top hat and scarf. And finally, of course, it can keep its original kanji shape, along with its original meaning of garment in general. Note that when any of the above forms have something beneath them (as in frame 429), the third from final stroke is ""unhooked."" Koohii #1 The only garments allowed in this club are top hat and scarf. Koohii #2 The garments most commonly associated with the craft of a magician are the top hat and the magic wand. (It´s a stretch, but the way I remembered this kanji is through that phrase. This way you can remember it through using primitives we have already learned.). Primitives garment, top hat, scarf, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment 衣装(いしょう): clothing, costume, outfit, garment, dress 衣料(いりょう): clothing 衣類(いるい): clothes, clothing, garments 衣食住(いしょくじゅう): necessities of life (food, clothing, etc.) 衣服(いふく): clothes 浴衣(ゆかた): bathrobe, informal summer kimono Kunyomi: ころも、きぬ、-ぎ Onyomi: イ、エ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 衣 (ころも)"	"garment 衣 画数6 423 Details Story Dictionary 衣 garment Heisig's At the top we see the top hat, and at the bottom a pictographic representation of the folds of a garment. If you break the ""4-fold"" fold into 2 sets of 2 strokes, you will find it easier to remember. * Used as a primitive, the additional meanings of cloak or scarf will come in handy. What has to be noted particularly are the changes in shape the kanji can undergo when it becomes an element in other kanji. In fact, it is the most volatile of all the kanji we shall treat, and for that reason deserves special attention here. When it appears to the left, it looks like a hiragana ne (ネ) with an extra drop on the right, and we shall take it to mean cloak. At the bottom, when attached to the stroke immediately above it, the first two strokes (the top hat) are omitted, which we shall take to mean a scarf. On rare occasions, the element can be torn right across the middle, with the first 2 strokes appearing at the top and the last 4 at the bottom of another primitive or cluster of primitive, in which cases we shall speak of a top hat and scarf. And finally, of course, it can keep its original kanji shape, along with its original meaning of garment in general. Note that when any of the above forms have something beneath them (as in frame 429), the third from final stroke is ""unhooked."" Koohii #1 The only garments allowed in this club are top hat and scarf. Koohii #2 The garments most commonly associated with the craft of a magician are the top hat and the magic wand. (It´s a stretch, but the way I remembered this kanji is through that phrase. This way you can remember it through using primitives we have already learned.). Primitives garment, top hat, scarf, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment 衣装(いしょう): clothing, costume, outfit, garment, dress 衣料(いりょう): clothing 衣類(いるい): clothes, clothing, garments 衣食住(いしょくじゅう): necessities of life (food, clothing, etc.) 衣服(いふく): clothes 浴衣(ゆかた): bathrobe, informal summer kimono Kunyomi: ころも、きぬ、-ぎ Onyomi: イ、エ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 衣 (ころも)"
trial/tailor Details Story Dictionary 裁 trial/tailor My Story [Ten/Needle + Spear + Cloth {衣} ] The decision of the #trial#: *ten* *spears* will rip through the *cloth* of your vest -- while you're wearing it! Koohii #1 The tailor was hard at work making sure all the pilgrims were dressed in their best garments for thanksgiving. Koohii #2 The tailor worked hard after thanksgiving to alter garments so they´d fit people who´d eaten too much at their thanksgiving dinners. Primitives tailor, Thanksgiving, harvest festival, ten, needle, fiesta, top hat, scarf, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment 裁く(さばく): to judge 制裁(せいさい): restraint, sanctions, punishment 体裁(ていさい): decency, style, form, appearance, show, get-up, format 独裁(どくさい): dictatorship, despotism 裁判(さいばん): trial, judgement 裁縫(さいほう): sewing Kunyomi: た.つ、さば.く Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 裁く (さば.く), 裁つ (た.つ)	trial/tailor 裁 画数12 424 Details Story Dictionary 裁 trial/tailor My Story [Ten/Needle + Spear + Cloth {衣} ] The decision of the #trial#: *ten* *spears* will rip through the *cloth* of your vest -- while you're wearing it! Koohii #1 The tailor was hard at work making sure all the pilgrims were dressed in their best garments for thanksgiving. Koohii #2 The tailor worked hard after thanksgiving to alter garments so they´d fit people who´d eaten too much at their thanksgiving dinners. Primitives tailor, Thanksgiving, harvest festival, ten, needle, fiesta, top hat, scarf, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment 裁く(さばく): to judge 制裁(せいさい): restraint, sanctions, punishment 体裁(ていさい): decency, style, form, appearance, show, get-up, format 独裁(どくさい): dictatorship, despotism 裁判(さいばん): trial, judgement 裁縫(さいほう): sewing Kunyomi: た.つ、さば.く Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 裁く (さば.く), 裁つ (た.つ)
"attire Details Story Dictionary 装 attire Heisig's The character for attire can be remembered as a picture of what we may call a ""turtle-samurai"" sweater. At the top we see the turtle-samurai and at the bottom the element for garment. Koohii #1 The TURTLE SAMURAI needs special GARMENTs for his ATTIRE since his body is much more ROBUST than others. Koohii #2 The ninja turtles tried to go eat at a fancy restaurant, but they were told to come back after their were dressed in proper attire. However, it´s too difficult for them to find proper garments because they bodies are so robust! (sannomiya + drwarrior12). Primitives attire, turtle, samurai, top hat, scarf, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment 衣装(いしょう): clothing, costume, outfit, garment, dress 盛装(せいそう): be dressed up, wear rich clothes 装飾(そうしょく): ornament 装備(そうび): equipment 武装(ぶそう): arms, armament, armed 舗装(ほそう): pavement, road surface 装置(そうち): equipment, installation, apparatus 服装(ふくそう): garments 包装(ほうそう): packing, wrapping Kunyomi: よそお.う、よそお.い Onyomi: ソウ、ショウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 装置 (そうち), 服装 (ふくそう), 変装 (へんそう), 装う (よそお.う)"	"attire 装 画数12 425 Details Story Dictionary 装 attire Heisig's The character for attire can be remembered as a picture of what we may call a ""turtle-samurai"" sweater. At the top we see the turtle-samurai and at the bottom the element for garment. Koohii #1 The TURTLE SAMURAI needs special GARMENTs for his ATTIRE since his body is much more ROBUST than others. Koohii #2 The ninja turtles tried to go eat at a fancy restaurant, but they were told to come back after their were dressed in proper attire. However, it´s too difficult for them to find proper garments because they bodies are so robust! (sannomiya + drwarrior12). Primitives attire, turtle, samurai, top hat, scarf, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment 衣装(いしょう): clothing, costume, outfit, garment, dress 盛装(せいそう): be dressed up, wear rich clothes 装飾(そうしょく): ornament 装備(そうび): equipment 武装(ぶそう): arms, armament, armed 舗装(ほそう): pavement, road surface 装置(そうち): equipment, installation, apparatus 服装(ふくそう): garments 包装(ほうそう): packing, wrapping Kunyomi: よそお.う、よそお.い Onyomi: ソウ、ショウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 装置 (そうち), 服装 (ふくそう), 変装 (へんそう), 装う (よそお.う)"
back Details Story Dictionary 裏 back My Story If you wear a *beret* in the back part of the *village*, you'll get *kicked in the nuts*. It's a rough 'hood. Koohii #1 The computer had carefully dressed up in clothes to look human. It was n´t until I looked at the back and saw the cables and stuff that I realized what it was. Koohii #2 Can computers be gay? I´m not sure, but mine always wears a top hat and scarf, and for some reason its back door port is always open... Primitives back, top hat, scarf, computer 裏返し(うらがえし): inside out, upside down 裏返す(うらがえす): turn inside out, turn the other way, turn over 裏切る(うらぎる): betray, double-cross 裏口(うらぐち): back door, rear entrance 裏(うら): the back, the wrong side Kunyomi: うら Onyomi: リ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 裏 (うら)	back 裏 画数13 426 Details Story Dictionary 裏 back My Story If you wear a *beret* in the back part of the *village*, you'll get *kicked in the nuts*. It's a rough 'hood. Koohii #1 The computer had carefully dressed up in clothes to look human. It was n´t until I looked at the back and saw the cables and stuff that I realized what it was. Koohii #2 Can computers be gay? I´m not sure, but mine always wears a top hat and scarf, and for some reason its back door port is always open... Primitives back, top hat, scarf, computer 裏返し(うらがえし): inside out, upside down 裏返す(うらがえす): turn inside out, turn the other way, turn over 裏切る(うらぎる): betray, double-cross 裏口(うらぐち): back door, rear entrance 裏(うら): the back, the wrong side Kunyomi: うら Onyomi: リ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 裏 (うら)
demolition Details Story Dictionary 壊 demolition Heisig's The right half of this character shows a garment woven so fine that it can pass through the eye of a needle, fittingly draped around the slithering, ethereal form of a poltergeist. In this frame, our eerie visitor brushes its robes against a nearby block of apartments and completely demolishes them, razing them to the ground. Koohii #1 If you stand too close to a DEMOLITION site, the dust might sting you like NEEDLES in your EYE and get your GARMENTs all dirty. Koohii #2 Since that needle eye thing turns up a lot, I turned it into Darth Vader. It kinda looks like him to me, with the eye being his metal mouth piece thing. So, Darth Vader swings his cape (his garment) demolishing a nearby building, leaving nothing but a pile of dirt. Primitives demolition, soil, dirt, ground, poltergeist, BernaE, ten, needle, eye, cross-eyed, net, top hat, scarf, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment 破壊(はかい): destruction 崩壊(ほうかい): collapse, decay (physics), crumbling, breaking down, caving in 壊す(こわす): break, destroy 壊れる(こわれる): be broken Kunyomi: こわ.す、こわ.れる、やぶ.る Onyomi: カイ、エ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 壊す (こわ.す), 壊れる (こわ.れる)	demolition 壊 画数16 427 Details Story Dictionary 壊 demolition Heisig's The right half of this character shows a garment woven so fine that it can pass through the eye of a needle, fittingly draped around the slithering, ethereal form of a poltergeist. In this frame, our eerie visitor brushes its robes against a nearby block of apartments and completely demolishes them, razing them to the ground. Koohii #1 If you stand too close to a DEMOLITION site, the dust might sting you like NEEDLES in your EYE and get your GARMENTs all dirty. Koohii #2 Since that needle eye thing turns up a lot, I turned it into Darth Vader. It kinda looks like him to me, with the eye being his metal mouth piece thing. So, Darth Vader swings his cape (his garment) demolishing a nearby building, leaving nothing but a pile of dirt. Primitives demolition, soil, dirt, ground, poltergeist, BernaE, ten, needle, eye, cross-eyed, net, top hat, scarf, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment 破壊(はかい): destruction 崩壊(ほうかい): collapse, decay (physics), crumbling, breaking down, caving in 壊す(こわす): break, destroy 壊れる(こわれる): be broken Kunyomi: こわ.す、こわ.れる、やぶ.る Onyomi: カイ、エ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 壊す (こわ.す), 壊れる (こわ.れる)
"pathetic Details Story Dictionary 哀 pathetic Heisig's A drunken sod in a tattered top hat and soiled silk scarf with a giant mouth guzzling something or other gives us a pathetic character role in which W. C. Fields might find himself right at home. Koohii #1 One of my friends with a crazy sense of fashion loves to wear a tophat and a scarf so that you can´t see his whole face but only his mouth. He thinks it´s cool. I think it´s pathetic. Koohii #2 A poor, homeless child like Oliver Twist, with a hungry open mouth, is pathetic-- in the original sense of the noun ""pathos."" The tattered tophat and scarf he wears only adds to the pathos. Primitives pathetic, top hat, scarf, mouth 可哀想(かわいそう): poor, pitiable, pathetic 哀れ(あわれ): helpless, pathos, pity, sorrow, grief, misery, compassion Kunyomi: あわ.れ、あわ.れむ、かな.しい Onyomi: アイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 哀れ (あわ.れ), 哀れむ (あわ.れむ)"	"pathetic 哀 画数9 428 Details Story Dictionary 哀 pathetic Heisig's A drunken sod in a tattered top hat and soiled silk scarf with a giant mouth guzzling something or other gives us a pathetic character role in which W. C. Fields might find himself right at home. Koohii #1 One of my friends with a crazy sense of fashion loves to wear a tophat and a scarf so that you can´t see his whole face but only his mouth. He thinks it´s cool. I think it´s pathetic. Koohii #2 A poor, homeless child like Oliver Twist, with a hungry open mouth, is pathetic-- in the original sense of the noun ""pathos."" The tattered tophat and scarf he wears only adds to the pathos. Primitives pathetic, top hat, scarf, mouth 可哀想(かわいそう): poor, pitiable, pathetic 哀れ(あわれ): helpless, pathos, pity, sorrow, grief, misery, compassion Kunyomi: あわ.れ、あわ.れむ、かな.しい Onyomi: アイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 哀れ (あわ.れ), 哀れむ (あわ.れむ)"
distant Details Story Dictionary 遠 distant Heisig's A distant figure on the road is such a blur it looks like a lidded crock wearing a silk scarf. Koohii #1 Keep distant from a lidded crock on the road wrapped in a scarf. It might be a bomb. Koohii #2 When traveling to a distant land, what better way of keeping warm on the road is there than carrying a warm lidded crock and wearing a scarf? Primitives distant, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, scarf, road 遠方(えんぽう): long way, distant place 遠ざかる(とおざかる): to go far off 遠回り(とおまわり): detour, roundabout way 待ち遠しい(まちどおしい): looking forward to 永遠(えいえん): eternity, perpetuity, immortality, permanence 遠足(えんそく): trip, hike, picnic 遠慮(えんりょ): diffidence, restraint, reserve 望遠鏡(ぼうえんきょう): telescope 遠く(とおく): far 遠い(とおい): far, distant Kunyomi: とお.い Onyomi: エン、オン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 遠近 (えんきん), 永遠 (えいえん), 敬遠 (けいえん), 遠い (とお.い)	distant 遠 画数13 429 Details Story Dictionary 遠 distant Heisig's A distant figure on the road is such a blur it looks like a lidded crock wearing a silk scarf. Koohii #1 Keep distant from a lidded crock on the road wrapped in a scarf. It might be a bomb. Koohii #2 When traveling to a distant land, what better way of keeping warm on the road is there than carrying a warm lidded crock and wearing a scarf? Primitives distant, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, scarf, road 遠方(えんぽう): long way, distant place 遠ざかる(とおざかる): to go far off 遠回り(とおまわり): detour, roundabout way 待ち遠しい(まちどおしい): looking forward to 永遠(えいえん): eternity, perpetuity, immortality, permanence 遠足(えんそく): trip, hike, picnic 遠慮(えんりょ): diffidence, restraint, reserve 望遠鏡(ぼうえんきょう): telescope 遠く(とおく): far 遠い(とおい): far, distant Kunyomi: とお.い Onyomi: エン、オン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 遠近 (えんきん), 永遠 (えいえん), 敬遠 (けいえん), 遠い (とお.い)
monkey Details Story Dictionary 猿 monkey Heisig's This clever little monkey has captured an entire pack of wild dogs, locked them inside a lidded crock, and wrapped the whole thing up in a silk scarf to present to the dogcatcher. Koohii #1 The MONKEY likes to play hide and seek with the PACK of WILD DOGS by hiding in the LIDDED CROCK. But he is easy to see because the SCARF he always wears is at the base of the LIDDED CROCK. Koohii #2 To catch a monkey, chase him with wild dogs into a lidded crock, then tie it with a scarf. Primitives monkey, pack of wild dogs, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, scarf 猿(さる): monkey Kunyomi: さる Onyomi: エン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 猿 (さる)	monkey 猿 画数13 430 Details Story Dictionary 猿 monkey Heisig's This clever little monkey has captured an entire pack of wild dogs, locked them inside a lidded crock, and wrapped the whole thing up in a silk scarf to present to the dogcatcher. Koohii #1 The MONKEY likes to play hide and seek with the PACK of WILD DOGS by hiding in the LIDDED CROCK. But he is easy to see because the SCARF he always wears is at the base of the LIDDED CROCK. Koohii #2 To catch a monkey, chase him with wild dogs into a lidded crock, then tie it with a scarf. Primitives monkey, pack of wild dogs, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, scarf 猿(さる): monkey Kunyomi: さる Onyomi: エン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 猿 (さる)
"first time Details Story Dictionary 初 first time Heisig's The primitives here take care of themselves: cloak and dagger .What I leave to you is to decide on an appropriate connotation for ""first time"" to take advantage of them. Koohii #1 This is the first time we´ve been out of the Shire, Mr. Frodo! Says Sam, covering himself with his cloak and clutching his dagger. Koohii #2 On his FIRST TIME, he cloaked his dagger with a Trojan. Primitives first time, cloak, sword, dagger 初版(しょはん): first edition 初(はつ): first, new 初耳(はつみみ): something heard for the first time 初級(しょきゅう): elementary level 初旬(しょじゅん): first 10 days of the month 最初(さいしょ): first time 初めて(はじめて): for the first time 初めに(はじめに): in the beginning, at first Kunyomi: はじ.め、はじ.めて、はつ、はつ-、うい-、-そ.める、-ぞ.め Onyomi: ショ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 初 (うい), 初める (そ.める), 初め (はじ.め), 初めて (はじ.めて), 初 (はつ)"	"first time 初 画数7 431 Details Story Dictionary 初 first time Heisig's The primitives here take care of themselves: cloak and dagger .What I leave to you is to decide on an appropriate connotation for ""first time"" to take advantage of them. Koohii #1 This is the first time we´ve been out of the Shire, Mr. Frodo! Says Sam, covering himself with his cloak and clutching his dagger. Koohii #2 On his FIRST TIME, he cloaked his dagger with a Trojan. Primitives first time, cloak, sword, dagger 初版(しょはん): first edition 初(はつ): first, new 初耳(はつみみ): something heard for the first time 初級(しょきゅう): elementary level 初旬(しょじゅん): first 10 days of the month 最初(さいしょ): first time 初めて(はじめて): for the first time 初めに(はじめに): in the beginning, at first Kunyomi: はじ.め、はじ.めて、はつ、はつ-、うい-、-そ.める、-ぞ.め Onyomi: ショ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 初 (うい), 初める (そ.める), 初め (はじ.め), 初めて (はじ.めて), 初 (はつ)"
towel Details Story Dictionary 巾 towel Heisig's This character depicts a bolt of cloth wrapped around a pole. From there it gets its meaning of a towel. Koohii #1 If it looks like a towel, speaks like a towel and walks like a towel... I wonder why Heisig didn´t include this one (as an actual kanji) in RtK 1. Koohii #2 Primative from RTK1. Primitives towel 布巾(ふきん): tea-towel, dish cloth 雑巾(ぞうきん): dust cloth Kunyomi: おお.い、ちきり、きれ、はば Onyomi: キン、フク Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	towel 巾 画数3 432 Details Story Dictionary 巾 towel Heisig's This character depicts a bolt of cloth wrapped around a pole. From there it gets its meaning of a towel. Koohii #1 If it looks like a towel, speaks like a towel and walks like a towel... I wonder why Heisig didn´t include this one (as an actual kanji) in RtK 1. Koohii #2 Primative from RTK1. Primitives towel 布巾(ふきん): tea-towel, dish cloth 雑巾(ぞうきん): dust cloth Kunyomi: おお.い、ちきり、きれ、はば Onyomi: キン、フク Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
"linen Details Story Dictionary 布 linen Heisig's The maid, towels by her side, distributes the linen. Koohii #1 A matador holding his red linen by his side. Koohii #2 The first rule of the Hitch-Hiker´s Guide to the Universe is ""DON´T PANIC!"" The second rule, of course, is to always have a towel by your side. Personally, I prefer the linen sort. Primitives linen, by one’s side, towel 配布(はいふ): distribution 布巾(ふきん): tea-towel, dish cloth 布告(ふこく): edict, ordinance, proclamation 座布団(ざぶとん): cushion (Japanese-- square cushion used when sitting on one´s knees on a tatami-mat floor) 布(ぬの): cloth 分布(ぶんぷ): distribution 毛布(もうふ): blanket 財布(さいふ): purse, wallet 布団(ふとん): futon Kunyomi: ぬの Onyomi: フ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 布 (ぬの)"	"linen 布 画数5 433 Details Story Dictionary 布 linen Heisig's The maid, towels by her side, distributes the linen. Koohii #1 A matador holding his red linen by his side. Koohii #2 The first rule of the Hitch-Hiker´s Guide to the Universe is ""DON´T PANIC!"" The second rule, of course, is to always have a towel by your side. Personally, I prefer the linen sort. Primitives linen, by one’s side, towel 配布(はいふ): distribution 布巾(ふきん): tea-towel, dish cloth 布告(ふこく): edict, ordinance, proclamation 座布団(ざぶとん): cushion (Japanese-- square cushion used when sitting on one´s knees on a tatami-mat floor) 布(ぬの): cloth 分布(ぶんぷ): distribution 毛布(もうふ): blanket 財布(さいふ): purse, wallet 布団(ふとん): futon Kunyomi: ぬの Onyomi: フ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 布 (ぬの)"
sail Details Story Dictionary 帆 sail Heisig's A sail made of a towel makes a mediocre vessel. Koohii #1 When stranded at sea, we needed a Sail. The best we had was a TOWEL, which was MEDICORE, only catching a DROP of WIND. Koohii #2 A towel makes a mediocre sail. Primitives sail, towel, mediocre, drop, wind Kunyomi: ほ Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 帆 (ほ)	sail 帆 画数6 434 Details Story Dictionary 帆 sail Heisig's A sail made of a towel makes a mediocre vessel. Koohii #1 When stranded at sea, we needed a Sail. The best we had was a TOWEL, which was MEDICORE, only catching a DROP of WIND. Koohii #2 A towel makes a mediocre sail. Primitives sail, towel, mediocre, drop, wind Kunyomi: ほ Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 帆 (ほ)
hanging scroll Details Story Dictionary 幅 hanging scroll Heisig's A towel owned by the wealthiest tycoon in the world is made into a hanging scroll after his death and auctioned off to the highest bidder. Koohii #1 In the west, the rich use $100 bills to light their cigars... In Japan, after showering, when the wealthy don´t have any clean towels, they simply grab a hanging scroll off the wall and use it to dry off! Koohii #2 The towels of the wealthy: hanging scrolls. Primitives hanging scroll, towel, wealth, one, ceiling, mouth, rice field, brains 大幅(おおはば): full width, large scale, drastic 幅(はば): width, breadth Kunyomi: はば Onyomi: フク Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 幅 (はば)	hanging scroll 幅 画数12 435 Details Story Dictionary 幅 hanging scroll Heisig's A towel owned by the wealthiest tycoon in the world is made into a hanging scroll after his death and auctioned off to the highest bidder. Koohii #1 In the west, the rich use $100 bills to light their cigars... In Japan, after showering, when the wealthy don´t have any clean towels, they simply grab a hanging scroll off the wall and use it to dry off! Koohii #2 The towels of the wealthy: hanging scrolls. Primitives hanging scroll, towel, wealth, one, ceiling, mouth, rice field, brains 大幅(おおはば): full width, large scale, drastic 幅(はば): width, breadth Kunyomi: はば Onyomi: フク Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 幅 (はば)
cap Details Story Dictionary 帽 cap Heisig's Because of the risk involved (of getting the sun in one's eyes),one puts together a makeshift cap out of a dirty old towel. Koohii #1 If you wear a towel as a cap, you are at risk of being seized and searched in U.S. airports. Koohii #2 Originally the first cap was a turban which was a towel wrapped around the head to keep the sun out of the eyes. Primitives cap, towel, risk, sun, day, eye 帽子(ぼうし): hat Kunyomi: ずきん、おお.う Onyomi: ボウ、モウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	cap 帽 画数12 436 Details Story Dictionary 帽 cap Heisig's Because of the risk involved (of getting the sun in one's eyes),one puts together a makeshift cap out of a dirty old towel. Koohii #1 If you wear a towel as a cap, you are at risk of being seized and searched in U.S. airports. Koohii #2 Originally the first cap was a turban which was a towel wrapped around the head to keep the sun out of the eyes. Primitives cap, towel, risk, sun, day, eye 帽子(ぼうし): hat Kunyomi: ずきん、おお.う Onyomi: ボウ、モウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
"curtain Details Story Dictionary 幕 curtain Heisig's A dirty towel draped over the entrance to the old graveyard is painted to look like the curtain of death that leads to the otherworld. Koohii #1 There is a graveyard outside my house that scares me, so I put a huge towel over the window to serve as a curtain so I can get a good nights sleep. Koohii #2 When you´re dead in the graveyard, ""it´s curtains for you."". Primitives curtain, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard, towel 幕(とばり): curtain, bunting, act (in play) 幕(まく): curtain, screen Kunyomi: とばり Onyomi: マク、バク Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 幕切れ (まくぎれ), 天幕 (てんまく), 暗幕 (あんまく)"	"curtain 幕 画数13 437 Details Story Dictionary 幕 curtain Heisig's A dirty towel draped over the entrance to the old graveyard is painted to look like the curtain of death that leads to the otherworld. Koohii #1 There is a graveyard outside my house that scares me, so I put a huge towel over the window to serve as a curtain so I can get a good nights sleep. Koohii #2 When you´re dead in the graveyard, ""it´s curtains for you."". Primitives curtain, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard, towel 幕(とばり): curtain, bunting, act (in play) 幕(まく): curtain, screen Kunyomi: とばり Onyomi: マク、バク Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 幕切れ (まくぎれ), 天幕 (てんまく), 暗幕 (あんまく)"
canopy Details Story Dictionary 幌 canopy Heisig's A large towel stretched overhead with only a few of the sun's rays breaking through represents a canopy over one's bed. Koohii #1 A canopy is a towel to block the suns rays. Koohii #2 From the Hitch-Hiker´s Guide to the Universe: A towel is useful, among other things, as a canopy to keep out the sun´s rays from your face while napping. Primitives canopy, towel, limpid, sun, day, ray, small, little, human legs Kunyomi: ほろ、とばり Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:	canopy 幌 画数13 438 Details Story Dictionary 幌 canopy Heisig's A large towel stretched overhead with only a few of the sun's rays breaking through represents a canopy over one's bed. Koohii #1 A canopy is a towel to block the suns rays. Koohii #2 From the Hitch-Hiker´s Guide to the Universe: A towel is useful, among other things, as a canopy to keep out the sun´s rays from your face while napping. Primitives canopy, towel, limpid, sun, day, ray, small, little, human legs Kunyomi: ほろ、とばり Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:
brocade Details Story Dictionary 錦 brocade Heisig's A strip of white towel and some scraps of metal have the makings of a primitive kind of brocade. Koohii #1 Brocade is the art of sewing gold on a white towel. Koohii #2 Never heard of this word before encountering it here. So it turns out that the fanciest brocade in the world is actually a towel used by a Turkish monarch. It´s embroidered with gold and cocaine. Yes, cocaine - what you thought it´d be something else? That is some true art right there. I think a great many people would want to own this towel. Primitives brocade, metal, gold, napkin, white, dove, towel Kunyomi: にしき Onyomi: キン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 錦 (にしき)	brocade 錦 画数16 439 Details Story Dictionary 錦 brocade Heisig's A strip of white towel and some scraps of metal have the makings of a primitive kind of brocade. Koohii #1 Brocade is the art of sewing gold on a white towel. Koohii #2 Never heard of this word before encountering it here. So it turns out that the fanciest brocade in the world is actually a towel used by a Turkish monarch. It´s embroidered with gold and cocaine. Yes, cocaine - what you thought it´d be something else? That is some true art right there. I think a great many people would want to own this towel. Primitives brocade, metal, gold, napkin, white, dove, towel Kunyomi: にしき Onyomi: キン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 錦 (にしき)
market Details Story Dictionary 市 market Heisig's Dressed in nothing but a bath towel and top hat, one sets off to the marketplace in search of a bargain or two. Koohii #1 My recurring nightmare: Walking through the market, and suddenly realizing that I´m wearing only a top hat...and a towel. Koohii #2 At the MARKET you find lots of nice TOP HATS and TOWELS. Primitives market, top hat, towel 市(いち): market, fair 市街(しがい): urban areas, the streets, town, city 市場(いちば): town market, the marketplace (economics) 市(し): market, fair 市民(しみん): citizen, townspeople 都市(とし): town, city, municipal, urban Kunyomi: いち Onyomi: シ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 市 (いち)	market 市 画数5 440 Details Story Dictionary 市 market Heisig's Dressed in nothing but a bath towel and top hat, one sets off to the marketplace in search of a bargain or two. Koohii #1 My recurring nightmare: Walking through the market, and suddenly realizing that I´m wearing only a top hat...and a towel. Koohii #2 At the MARKET you find lots of nice TOP HATS and TOWELS. Primitives market, top hat, towel 市(いち): market, fair 市街(しがい): urban areas, the streets, town, city 市場(いちば): town market, the marketplace (economics) 市(し): market, fair 市民(しみん): citizen, townspeople 都市(とし): town, city, municipal, urban Kunyomi: いち Onyomi: シ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 市 (いち)
persimmon Details Story Dictionary 柿 persimmon Heisig's Imagine a village market with stalls set up around an immense persimmon tree with watermelon-sized fruit. If it weren't for the fact that the tree is sacred to the village, people would get impatient as the persimmons fall from the tree and wreak havoc on buyers and sellers alike. Koohii #1 Nobody buys persimmons at the market, because there´s a tree in the middle where you can pick them for free. Koohii #2 The guy at the market says: I´ll give you one persimmon tree per every Simon you bring me! Primitives persimmon, tree, wood, market, top hat, towel Kunyomi: かき、こけら Onyomi: シ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 柿 (かき)	persimmon 柿 画数9 441 Details Story Dictionary 柿 persimmon Heisig's Imagine a village market with stalls set up around an immense persimmon tree with watermelon-sized fruit. If it weren't for the fact that the tree is sacred to the village, people would get impatient as the persimmons fall from the tree and wreak havoc on buyers and sellers alike. Koohii #1 Nobody buys persimmons at the market, because there´s a tree in the middle where you can pick them for free. Koohii #2 The guy at the market says: I´ll give you one persimmon tree per every Simon you bring me! Primitives persimmon, tree, wood, market, top hat, towel Kunyomi: かき、こけら Onyomi: シ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 柿 (かき)
"elder sister Details Story Dictionary 姉 elder sister Heisig's Of all the women of the family, it is the elder sister who has the duty to go to market to do the shopping. Koohii #1 Unlike the younger sister (妹), who is not yet old enough to date... the elder sister is on the market! Koohii #2 She´s old enough to be allowed to go to the market. Primitives elder sister, woman, market, top hat, towel 姉妹(きょうだい): sisters 従姉妹(いとこ): female cousin 姉妹(しまい): sisters 姉(あね): older sister お姉さん(おねえさん): (polite) older sister, (vocative) ""Miss?"" Kunyomi: あね、はは Onyomi: シ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 姉 (あね)"	"elder sister 姉 画数8 442 Details Story Dictionary 姉 elder sister Heisig's Of all the women of the family, it is the elder sister who has the duty to go to market to do the shopping. Koohii #1 Unlike the younger sister (妹), who is not yet old enough to date... the elder sister is on the market! Koohii #2 She´s old enough to be allowed to go to the market. Primitives elder sister, woman, market, top hat, towel 姉妹(きょうだい): sisters 従姉妹(いとこ): female cousin 姉妹(しまい): sisters 姉(あね): older sister お姉さん(おねえさん): (polite) older sister, (vocative) ""Miss?"" Kunyomi: あね、はは Onyomi: シ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 姉 (あね)"
"lungs Details Story Dictionary 肺 lungs Heisig's One is surprised, strolling through the market, to find among the meats hung out for sale a slab marked: lungs. Koohii #1 LUNGS are a PART of the BODY that can be found at any meat MARKET or black MARKET. Koohii #2 The PART OF THE BODY most important if you work at a MARKET is your LUNGS so that you can shout out at the top of your voice ""IRASSHAIMASEEE"" to attract customers. Primitives lungs, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, market, top hat, towel 肺(はい): lung Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"lungs 肺 画数9 443 Details Story Dictionary 肺 lungs Heisig's One is surprised, strolling through the market, to find among the meats hung out for sale a slab marked: lungs. Koohii #1 LUNGS are a PART of the BODY that can be found at any meat MARKET or black MARKET. Koohii #2 The PART OF THE BODY most important if you work at a MARKET is your LUNGS so that you can shout out at the top of your voice ""IRASSHAIMASEEE"" to attract customers. Primitives lungs, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, market, top hat, towel 肺(はい): lung Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"sash Details Story Dictionary 帯 sash Heisig's The part of the apron where one finds the buckle (represented pictorially by the first 5 strokes) is on the sash. Koohii #1 First, note that the top half of the kanji consists of one and mountain. Of course, the ""number 1"" mountain in Japan is Mt. Fuji. The bottom half, under Mt. Fuji, consists of crown and towel. Now for the story. Archaeologists digging under Mt. Fuji (Japan´s #1 mountain) in an ancient royal tomb (they know it´s royal because of the crown) discover what looks like a towel, but after they clean it up, they see it is actually a splendid royal sash for the king´s kimono. Koohii #2 Beautiful ""Miss Housewife Japan"" is on posters everywhere, cooking right before Mt. Fuji (the number one mountain) while wearing nothing but her crown, and an apron tied with a sash. (hodgepodge of mspertus, zwarte_kat, et al, with a jot of hadaka apron to focus the image.). Primitives sash, buckle, apron, crown, towel 一帯(いったい): a region, a zone, the whole place 帯びる(おびる): to wear, to carry, to be entrusted, to have, to take on, to have a trace of, to be tinged with 携帯(けいたい): carrying something 世帯(せたい): household 連帯(れんたい): solidarity 帯(おび): kimono sash 温帯(おんたい): temperate zone 寒帯(かんたい): frigid zone 地帯(ちたい): area, zone 熱帯(ねったい): tropics 包帯(ほうたい): bandage, dressing Kunyomi: お.びる、おび Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 帯びる (お.びる), 帯 (おび)"	"sash 帯 画数10 444 Details Story Dictionary 帯 sash Heisig's The part of the apron where one finds the buckle (represented pictorially by the first 5 strokes) is on the sash. Koohii #1 First, note that the top half of the kanji consists of one and mountain. Of course, the ""number 1"" mountain in Japan is Mt. Fuji. The bottom half, under Mt. Fuji, consists of crown and towel. Now for the story. Archaeologists digging under Mt. Fuji (Japan´s #1 mountain) in an ancient royal tomb (they know it´s royal because of the crown) discover what looks like a towel, but after they clean it up, they see it is actually a splendid royal sash for the king´s kimono. Koohii #2 Beautiful ""Miss Housewife Japan"" is on posters everywhere, cooking right before Mt. Fuji (the number one mountain) while wearing nothing but her crown, and an apron tied with a sash. (hodgepodge of mspertus, zwarte_kat, et al, with a jot of hadaka apron to focus the image.). Primitives sash, buckle, apron, crown, towel 一帯(いったい): a region, a zone, the whole place 帯びる(おびる): to wear, to carry, to be entrusted, to have, to take on, to have a trace of, to be tinged with 携帯(けいたい): carrying something 世帯(せたい): household 連帯(れんたい): solidarity 帯(おび): kimono sash 温帯(おんたい): temperate zone 寒帯(かんたい): frigid zone 地帯(ちたい): area, zone 熱帯(ねったい): tropics 包帯(ほうたい): bandage, dressing Kunyomi: お.びる、おび Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 帯びる (お.びる), 帯 (おび)"
"stagnate Details Story Dictionary 滞 stagnate Heisig's People that have been ""sashed"" to something (whether their mother's apron strings or a particular job) for too long become like water that has stopped moving: they start to stagnate. Koohii #1 History of the first karate blackbelts: In those days, it was often difficult to find fresh, clean water, so samurai usually had to wash their sashes in stagnant puddles. The longer one had been studying martial arts, the older the sash on one´s karate uniform and, therefore, the darker the color. So why weren´t their karate uniforms black too? Never seen a ninja???? Koohii #2 A moat is a stagnate ring of water like an obi (sash) of water tied around the castle. Primitives stagnate, water, water droplets, water pistol, sash, buckle, apron, crown, towel 滞納(たいのう): non-payment, default 停滞(ていたい): stagnation, tie-up, congestion, retention, accumulation, falling into arrears 滞る(とどこおる): to stagnate, to be delayed 渋滞(じゅうたい): congestion (e.g. traffic), delay, stagnation 滞在(たいざい): stay, sojourn Kunyomi: とどこお.る Onyomi: タイ、テイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 滞る (とどこお.る)"	"stagnate 滞 画数13 445 Details Story Dictionary 滞 stagnate Heisig's People that have been ""sashed"" to something (whether their mother's apron strings or a particular job) for too long become like water that has stopped moving: they start to stagnate. Koohii #1 History of the first karate blackbelts: In those days, it was often difficult to find fresh, clean water, so samurai usually had to wash their sashes in stagnant puddles. The longer one had been studying martial arts, the older the sash on one´s karate uniform and, therefore, the darker the color. So why weren´t their karate uniforms black too? Never seen a ninja???? Koohii #2 A moat is a stagnate ring of water like an obi (sash) of water tied around the castle. Primitives stagnate, water, water droplets, water pistol, sash, buckle, apron, crown, towel 滞納(たいのう): non-payment, default 停滞(ていたい): stagnation, tie-up, congestion, retention, accumulation, falling into arrears 滞る(とどこおる): to stagnate, to be delayed 渋滞(じゅうたい): congestion (e.g. traffic), delay, stagnation 滞在(たいざい): stay, sojourn Kunyomi: とどこお.る Onyomi: タイ、テイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 滞る (とどこお.る)"
thorn Details Story Dictionary 刺 thorn Heisig's Thorns grow on a bush here that has wrapped itself around a tree like a belt, cutting into the poor tree like little sabers. Koohii #1 A TREE with a BELT wrapped around the middle. If you tighten the BELT, hundreds of tiny SABERS pop out of the tree in all directions, looking like THORNS. Koohii #2 The BELT TREE has THORNS like SABERS. Primitives thorn, tree, wood, belt, sword, sabre, saber 刺繍(ししゅう): embroidery 刺(とげ): thorn, splinter, spine, biting words 刺さる(ささる): stick, be stuck 刺身(さしみ): sliced raw fish 刺す(さす): pierce, stab, prick, thrust, bite, sting, pin down 刺激(しげき): stimulus, impetus, incentive, excitement, irritation, encouragement, motivation 名刺(めいし): business card Kunyomi: さ.す、さ.さる、さ.し、さし、とげ Onyomi: シ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 刺さる (さ.さる), 刺す (さ.す)	thorn 刺 画数8 446 Details Story Dictionary 刺 thorn Heisig's Thorns grow on a bush here that has wrapped itself around a tree like a belt, cutting into the poor tree like little sabers. Koohii #1 A TREE with a BELT wrapped around the middle. If you tighten the BELT, hundreds of tiny SABERS pop out of the tree in all directions, looking like THORNS. Koohii #2 The BELT TREE has THORNS like SABERS. Primitives thorn, tree, wood, belt, sword, sabre, saber 刺繍(ししゅう): embroidery 刺(とげ): thorn, splinter, spine, biting words 刺さる(ささる): stick, be stuck 刺身(さしみ): sliced raw fish 刺す(さす): pierce, stab, prick, thrust, bite, sting, pin down 刺激(しげき): stimulus, impetus, incentive, excitement, irritation, encouragement, motivation 名刺(めいし): business card Kunyomi: さ.す、さ.さる、さ.し、さし、とげ Onyomi: シ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 刺さる (さ.さる), 刺す (さ.す)
"system Details Story Dictionary 制 system My Story [Cow body (made up) + realistic sword] The *cow boy* and his *realistic sword* fought off the racist system Koohii #1 The system for making leather belts involves slicing up a cow with a sword. Koohii #2 Why all the gore and violence? How about a samurai cow? He doesn´t have to be a violent samurai, either. He only wears the sword because he´s part of the bushi SYSTEM. Actually, he studies ikebana, shodo, and zen. Imagine him sitting cross-legged in a Zen temple (a very Special Zen temple). The master asks him if a dog has buddha nature and, shifting the swords in his belt, he calmly replies, ""Moo!"". Primitives system, cow, belt, sword, sabre, saber 規制(きせい): regulation 強制(きょうせい): obligation, coercion, compulsion, enforcement 制(せい): system, organization, imperial command, laws, regulation, control, government, suppression, restraint, holding back, establishment 制裁(せいさい): restraint, sanctions, punishment 制する(せいする): to control, to command, to get the better of 制定(せいてい): enactment, establishment, creation 制服(せいふく): uniform 制約(せいやく): limitation, restriction, condition, constraints 統制(とうせい): regulation, control 抑制(よくせい): suppression 制限(せいげん): restriction, restraint, limitation 制作(せいさく): work (film, book) 制度(せいど): system, institution, organization 専制(せんせい): despotism, autocracy 体制(たいせい): order, system, structure, set-up, organization Kunyomi: Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"system 制 画数8 447 Details Story Dictionary 制 system My Story [Cow body (made up) + realistic sword] The *cow boy* and his *realistic sword* fought off the racist system Koohii #1 The system for making leather belts involves slicing up a cow with a sword. Koohii #2 Why all the gore and violence? How about a samurai cow? He doesn´t have to be a violent samurai, either. He only wears the sword because he´s part of the bushi SYSTEM. Actually, he studies ikebana, shodo, and zen. Imagine him sitting cross-legged in a Zen temple (a very Special Zen temple). The master asks him if a dog has buddha nature and, shifting the swords in his belt, he calmly replies, ""Moo!"". Primitives system, cow, belt, sword, sabre, saber 規制(きせい): regulation 強制(きょうせい): obligation, coercion, compulsion, enforcement 制(せい): system, organization, imperial command, laws, regulation, control, government, suppression, restraint, holding back, establishment 制裁(せいさい): restraint, sanctions, punishment 制する(せいする): to control, to command, to get the better of 制定(せいてい): enactment, establishment, creation 制服(せいふく): uniform 制約(せいやく): limitation, restriction, condition, constraints 統制(とうせい): regulation, control 抑制(よくせい): suppression 制限(せいげん): restriction, restraint, limitation 制作(せいさく): work (film, book) 制度(せいど): system, institution, organization 専制(せんせい): despotism, autocracy 体制(たいせい): order, system, structure, set-up, organization Kunyomi: Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
made in... Details Story Dictionary 製 made in... Heisig's A label indicating that a garment was made in U.S.A. or Taiwan or Japan is itself a symbol for the systematization of the garment industry. Koohii #1 Made in china - a system of exploitation . making garments for nothing. Koohii #2 A SYSTEMATICALLY made GARMENT will no doubt have MADE IN on the label. Primitives made in…, system, cow, belt, sword, sabre, saber, hat, scarf, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment 製(せい): -made, make 製鉄(せいてつ): iron manufacture 製法(せいほう): manufacturing method, recipe, formula 作製(さくせい): manufacture 製作(せいさく): manufacture, production 製造(せいぞう): manufacture, production 製品(せいひん): manufactured goods Kunyomi: Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	made in... 製 画数14 448 Details Story Dictionary 製 made in... Heisig's A label indicating that a garment was made in U.S.A. or Taiwan or Japan is itself a symbol for the systematization of the garment industry. Koohii #1 Made in china - a system of exploitation . making garments for nothing. Koohii #2 A SYSTEMATICALLY made GARMENT will no doubt have MADE IN on the label. Primitives made in…, system, cow, belt, sword, sabre, saber, hat, scarf, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment 製(せい): -made, make 製鉄(せいてつ): iron manufacture 製法(せいほう): manufacturing method, recipe, formula 作製(さくせい): manufacture 製作(せいさく): manufacture, production 製造(せいぞう): manufacture, production 製品(せいひん): manufactured goods Kunyomi: Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
revolve Details Story Dictionary 転 revolve My Story #New primitive:# {云} = *rising cloud*, eg. of dust, smoke, vapor etc. The car's wheels revolve, sending up a *rising cloud* of dust. Koohii #1 The REVOLVING wheels of the car (with REVOLVER blaring on the stereo) kicked up RISING CLOUDS of dust. Koohii #2 Just a note to remember the cloud primative: The name of Goku´s pet cloud that he used to help him rise (fly) in the Dragonball anime series (and also the scientific name for a certain type of cloud) is Nimbus [ http://www.rpgclassics.com/shrines/gba/dbztlog/screen2.jpg ]. The katakana-ization of this is {ニム}バス, so the rising cloud primative is just an abbreviation of that name written from top to bottom in the old Japanese style. Primitives revolve, car, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall 逆転(ぎゃくてん): (sudden) change, reversal, turn-around, coming from behind (baseball) 自転(じてん): rotation, spin 転回(てんかい): revolution, rotation 転換(てんかん): convert, divert 転居(てんきょ): moving, changing residence 転勤(てんきん): transfer, transmission 転校(てんこう): change schools 転じる(てんじる): to turn, to shift, to alter, to distract 転任(てんにん): change of post 転落(てんらく): fall, degradation, slump 移転(いてん): moving, transfer, demise 運転(うんてん): operation, motion, driving 回転(かいてん): rotation, revolution, turning 転がす(ころがす): roll (transitive) 転がる(ころがる): roll, tumble 転ぶ(ころぶ): fall down, fall over 転々(てんてん): rolling about, moving from place to place, being passed around repeatedly 運転手(うんてんしゅ): drive 自転車(じてんしゃ): bicycle Kunyomi: ころ.がる、ころ.げる、ころ.がす、ころ.ぶ、まろ.ぶ、うたた、うつ.る、くる.めく Onyomi: テン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 転がす (ころ.がす), 転がる (ころ.がる), 転げる (ころ.げる), 転ぶ (ころ.ぶ)	revolve 転 画数11 449 Details Story Dictionary 転 revolve My Story #New primitive:# {云} = *rising cloud*, eg. of dust, smoke, vapor etc. The car's wheels revolve, sending up a *rising cloud* of dust. Koohii #1 The REVOLVING wheels of the car (with REVOLVER blaring on the stereo) kicked up RISING CLOUDS of dust. Koohii #2 Just a note to remember the cloud primative: The name of Goku´s pet cloud that he used to help him rise (fly) in the Dragonball anime series (and also the scientific name for a certain type of cloud) is Nimbus [ http://www.rpgclassics.com/shrines/gba/dbztlog/screen2.jpg ]. The katakana-ization of this is {ニム}バス, so the rising cloud primative is just an abbreviation of that name written from top to bottom in the old Japanese style. Primitives revolve, car, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall 逆転(ぎゃくてん): (sudden) change, reversal, turn-around, coming from behind (baseball) 自転(じてん): rotation, spin 転回(てんかい): revolution, rotation 転換(てんかん): convert, divert 転居(てんきょ): moving, changing residence 転勤(てんきん): transfer, transmission 転校(てんこう): change schools 転じる(てんじる): to turn, to shift, to alter, to distract 転任(てんにん): change of post 転落(てんらく): fall, degradation, slump 移転(いてん): moving, transfer, demise 運転(うんてん): operation, motion, driving 回転(かいてん): rotation, revolution, turning 転がす(ころがす): roll (transitive) 転がる(ころがる): roll, tumble 転ぶ(ころぶ): fall down, fall over 転々(てんてん): rolling about, moving from place to place, being passed around repeatedly 運転手(うんてんしゅ): drive 自転車(じてんしゃ): bicycle Kunyomi: ころ.がる、ころ.げる、ころ.がす、ころ.ぶ、まろ.ぶ、うたた、うつ.る、くる.めく Onyomi: テン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 転がす (ころ.がす), 転がる (ころ.がる), 転げる (ころ.げる), 転ぶ (ころ.ぶ)
"technique Details Story Dictionary 芸 technique My Story [Flower + rising cloud {云}(primitive)] His technique was graceful, he used a flower to *decapitate twin cows*; his technique, like Hannibal Lecter Used in 芸者 (げいしゃ) and 芸術 (げいじゅつ, see {術} ). Koohii #1 Imagine an old Kung-fu movie: ""Try my rising cloud flower technique!!!"" smash pow crack!! . Koohii #2 One technique to smoke weed is to vaporize it and inhale those rising clouds to create a stronger effect. Primitives technique, flowers, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall 学芸(がくげい): arts and sciences, liberal arts 手芸(しゅげい): handicrafts 園芸(えんげい): horticulture, gardening 芸術(げいじゅつ): fine art, the arts 芸能(げいのう): public entertainment, accomplishments, attainments 工芸(こうげい): industrial arts 文芸(ぶんげい): literature, art and literature Kunyomi: う.える、のり、わざ Onyomi: ゲイ、ウン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"technique 芸 画数7 450 Details Story Dictionary 芸 technique My Story [Flower + rising cloud {云}(primitive)] His technique was graceful, he used a flower to *decapitate twin cows*; his technique, like Hannibal Lecter Used in 芸者 (げいしゃ) and 芸術 (げいじゅつ, see {術} ). Koohii #1 Imagine an old Kung-fu movie: ""Try my rising cloud flower technique!!!"" smash pow crack!! . Koohii #2 One technique to smoke weed is to vaporize it and inhale those rising clouds to create a stronger effect. Primitives technique, flowers, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall 学芸(がくげい): arts and sciences, liberal arts 手芸(しゅげい): handicrafts 園芸(えんげい): horticulture, gardening 芸術(げいじゅつ): fine art, the arts 芸能(げいのう): public entertainment, accomplishments, attainments 工芸(こうげい): industrial arts 文芸(ぶんげい): literature, art and literature Kunyomi: う.える、のり、わざ Onyomi: ゲイ、ウン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
rain Details Story Dictionary 雨 rain Heisig's This kanji, also a primitive, is one of the clearest instances we have of a complex pictograph. The top line is the sky, the next 3 strokes a pair of clouds, and the final 4 dots the rain collected there and waiting to fall. * As a primitive it can mean either rain or weather in general. Because it takes so much space, it usually has to be contracted into a crown by shortening the second and third strokes into a crown. Koohii #1 From the ceiling hangs a towel dripping four drops like RAIN. Koohii #2 Towel hung out on a line to ....oops, it´s rain. Primitives rain, rain, weather 雨具(あまぐ): rain gear 雨天(うてん): rainy weather 梅雨(つゆ): rainy season, rain during the rainy season 雨戸(あまど): (sliding) storm door 雨(あめ): rain Kunyomi: あめ、あま-、-さめ Onyomi: ウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 雨 (あま), 雨 (あめ)	rain 雨 画数8 451 Details Story Dictionary 雨 rain Heisig's This kanji, also a primitive, is one of the clearest instances we have of a complex pictograph. The top line is the sky, the next 3 strokes a pair of clouds, and the final 4 dots the rain collected there and waiting to fall. * As a primitive it can mean either rain or weather in general. Because it takes so much space, it usually has to be contracted into a crown by shortening the second and third strokes into a crown. Koohii #1 From the ceiling hangs a towel dripping four drops like RAIN. Koohii #2 Towel hung out on a line to ....oops, it´s rain. Primitives rain, rain, weather 雨具(あまぐ): rain gear 雨天(うてん): rainy weather 梅雨(つゆ): rainy season, rain during the rainy season 雨戸(あまど): (sliding) storm door 雨(あめ): rain Kunyomi: あめ、あま-、-さめ Onyomi: ウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 雨 (あま), 雨 (あめ)
cloud Details Story Dictionary 雲 cloud Heisig's Here is the full character for cloud from which the primitive for a rising cloud derives. Clouds begin with vapors rising up in small clouds from the surface of the earth, and then gathering to make clouds that eventually dump their rain back on the earth. Koohii #1 Every rising cloud is a potential rain cloud. (Thanks astridtops). Koohii #2 Every cloud is a potential rain cloud. Primitives cloud, rain, weather, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall 雲(くも): the clouds Kunyomi: くも、-ぐも Onyomi: ウン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 雲 (くも)	cloud 雲 画数12 452 Details Story Dictionary 雲 cloud Heisig's Here is the full character for cloud from which the primitive for a rising cloud derives. Clouds begin with vapors rising up in small clouds from the surface of the earth, and then gathering to make clouds that eventually dump their rain back on the earth. Koohii #1 Every rising cloud is a potential rain cloud. (Thanks astridtops). Koohii #2 Every cloud is a potential rain cloud. Primitives cloud, rain, weather, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall 雲(くも): the clouds Kunyomi: くも、-ぐも Onyomi: ウン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 雲 (くも)
cloudy weather Details Story Dictionary 曇 cloudy weather Heisig's We refer to days when the sun is covered by the clouds as cloudy weather. Koohii #1 Cloudy weather is when a cloud blocks the sun (up above). Koohii #2 In cloudy weather, the sun is still there even if obscured by the clouds...　RTK2:　ドン　曇天　どんてん(cloudy skies). Primitives cloudy weather, sun, day, cloud, rain, weather, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall 曇り(くもり): cloudiness, cloudy weather, shadow 曇る(くもる): become cloudy, become dim Kunyomi: くも.る Onyomi: ドン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 曇る (くも.る)	cloudy weather 曇 画数16 453 Details Story Dictionary 曇 cloudy weather Heisig's We refer to days when the sun is covered by the clouds as cloudy weather. Koohii #1 Cloudy weather is when a cloud blocks the sun (up above). Koohii #2 In cloudy weather, the sun is still there even if obscured by the clouds...　RTK2:　ドン　曇天　どんてん(cloudy skies). Primitives cloudy weather, sun, day, cloud, rain, weather, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall 曇り(くもり): cloudiness, cloudy weather, shadow 曇る(くもる): become cloudy, become dim Kunyomi: くも.る Onyomi: ドン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 曇る (くも.る)
thunder Details Story Dictionary 雷 thunder Heisig's The full rumble and roar and terror of thunder is best felt not with your head tucked under your pillow safe in bed, but out in an open rice field where you can get the real feel of the weather. Koohii #1 If it´s raining and you´re standing in the middle of a rice field, you´re sure to soon become acquainted with the thunder up close and personal. Koohii #2 Thunder is a sure sign of rain coming. When you hear the thunder, you´ve got time to get out of the field before it starts raining. Primitives thunder, rain, weather, rice field, brains 雷(いかずち): thunder 雷(かみなり): thunder Kunyomi: かみなり Onyomi: ライ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 雷 (かみなり)	thunder 雷 画数13 454 Details Story Dictionary 雷 thunder Heisig's The full rumble and roar and terror of thunder is best felt not with your head tucked under your pillow safe in bed, but out in an open rice field where you can get the real feel of the weather. Koohii #1 If it´s raining and you´re standing in the middle of a rice field, you´re sure to soon become acquainted with the thunder up close and personal. Koohii #2 Thunder is a sure sign of rain coming. When you hear the thunder, you´ve got time to get out of the field before it starts raining. Primitives thunder, rain, weather, rice field, brains 雷(いかずち): thunder 雷(かみなり): thunder Kunyomi: かみなり Onyomi: ライ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 雷 (かみなり)
frost Details Story Dictionary 霜 frost Heisig's Think of frost as a cooperative venture, an inter-action of the malevolent forces of weather that sit around a conference table and finally decide to allow a very light amount of moisture to fall just before a short and sudden freeze. Koohii #1 FROST is kind of an inter-weather, phenomenon, something between rain, snow and freezing temp’s. Koohii #2 The freezing RAIN formed FROST on the TREE right before your EYES. If you want, frost-y then think Frost Tree to get to the mnemonic. SECOND STORY: FROSTY the snowman? It´s RAIN that FROSTS that can then INTER-act with the kids, till he melts of course. Primitives frost, rain, weather, inter, Inter Milan, tree, wood, eye 霜(しも): frost Kunyomi: しも Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 霜 (しも)	frost 霜 画数17 455 Details Story Dictionary 霜 frost Heisig's Think of frost as a cooperative venture, an inter-action of the malevolent forces of weather that sit around a conference table and finally decide to allow a very light amount of moisture to fall just before a short and sudden freeze. Koohii #1 FROST is kind of an inter-weather, phenomenon, something between rain, snow and freezing temp’s. Koohii #2 The freezing RAIN formed FROST on the TREE right before your EYES. If you want, frost-y then think Frost Tree to get to the mnemonic. SECOND STORY: FROSTY the snowman? It´s RAIN that FROSTS that can then INTER-act with the kids, till he melts of course. Primitives frost, rain, weather, inter, Inter Milan, tree, wood, eye 霜(しも): frost Kunyomi: しも Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 霜 (しも)
winter Details Story Dictionary 冬 winter Heisig's Walking legs slipping on the ice are a sure sign of winter. Koohii #1 Don´t slip off your legs in winter, strap two skis to your feet. Koohii #2 In winter my walking legs feel like blocks of ice. Primitives winter, walking legs, ice 冬眠(とうみん): hibernation, winter sleep 冬(ふゆ): winter Kunyomi: ふゆ Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 冬 (ふゆ)	winter 冬 画数5 456 Details Story Dictionary 冬 winter Heisig's Walking legs slipping on the ice are a sure sign of winter. Koohii #1 Don´t slip off your legs in winter, strap two skis to your feet. Koohii #2 In winter my walking legs feel like blocks of ice. Primitives winter, walking legs, ice 冬眠(とうみん): hibernation, winter sleep 冬(ふゆ): winter Kunyomi: ふゆ Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 冬 (ふゆ)
heavens Details Story Dictionary 天 heavens Heisig's This character is meant to be a pictograph of a great man, said to represent the Lord of the Heavens. (You may, of course, use the elements ceiling and St. Bernard instead.) * The primitive can mean either the heaven of eternal bliss or the general term for sky, the heavens. Pay special attention to the fact that in its primitive form the first stroke is written right to left, rather like the first stroke of thousand (Frame 40), rather than left to right. From the next character, we shall give it the primitive meaning of a witch. Koohii #1 If you think of the sky as a ceiling above our heads, here you have the heavens as the largest ceiling you could ever imagine. As Heisig pointed out, nothing comes above the ceiling primitive thus the order of primitives is taken care of. Koohii #2 The ceiling that all large dogs aspire to go to is known as heaven. After all, All Dogs Go to Heaven. Primitives heavens, heavens, one, ceiling, large 天(あまつ): heavenly, imperial 天地(あめつち): heaven and earth, the universe, nature, top and bottom, realm, sphere, world 雨天(うてん): rainy weather 天皇(すめらぎ): Emperor of Japan 晴天(せいてん): fine weather 先天的(せんてんてき): a priori, inborn, innate, inherent, congenital, hereditary 天国(てんごく): paradise, heaven, Kingdom of Heaven 天才(てんさい): genius, prodigy, natural gift 天災(てんさい): natural calamity, disaster 天井(てんじょう): ceiling, ceiling price 天体(てんたい): heavenly body 天候(てんこう): weather 天然(てんねん): nature, spontaneity 天皇(てんのう): Emperor of Japan 天気予報(てんきよほう): weather forecast 天気(てんき): weather, the elements, fine weather Kunyomi: あまつ、あめ、あま- Onyomi: テン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 天 (あめ)	heavens 天 画数4 457 Details Story Dictionary 天 heavens Heisig's This character is meant to be a pictograph of a great man, said to represent the Lord of the Heavens. (You may, of course, use the elements ceiling and St. Bernard instead.) * The primitive can mean either the heaven of eternal bliss or the general term for sky, the heavens. Pay special attention to the fact that in its primitive form the first stroke is written right to left, rather like the first stroke of thousand (Frame 40), rather than left to right. From the next character, we shall give it the primitive meaning of a witch. Koohii #1 If you think of the sky as a ceiling above our heads, here you have the heavens as the largest ceiling you could ever imagine. As Heisig pointed out, nothing comes above the ceiling primitive thus the order of primitives is taken care of. Koohii #2 The ceiling that all large dogs aspire to go to is known as heaven. After all, All Dogs Go to Heaven. Primitives heavens, heavens, one, ceiling, large 天(あまつ): heavenly, imperial 天地(あめつち): heaven and earth, the universe, nature, top and bottom, realm, sphere, world 雨天(うてん): rainy weather 天皇(すめらぎ): Emperor of Japan 晴天(せいてん): fine weather 先天的(せんてんてき): a priori, inborn, innate, inherent, congenital, hereditary 天国(てんごく): paradise, heaven, Kingdom of Heaven 天才(てんさい): genius, prodigy, natural gift 天災(てんさい): natural calamity, disaster 天井(てんじょう): ceiling, ceiling price 天体(てんたい): heavenly body 天候(てんこう): weather 天然(てんねん): nature, spontaneity 天皇(てんのう): Emperor of Japan 天気予報(てんきよほう): weather forecast 天気(てんき): weather, the elements, fine weather Kunyomi: あまつ、あめ、あま- Onyomi: テン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 天 (あめ)
bewitched Details Story Dictionary 妖 bewitched Heisig's You are bewitched by a woman who is, of course, a witch. Koohii #1 If you don´t want to get bewitched (and who would?), then avoid any woman you see carrying what might appear to be a sapling. It´s really a wand in disguise, and if you´re not aware you might get bewitched. Koohii #2 I was bewitched by the woman fairy (like an angel, but not as tall). Primitives bewitched, woman, sapling Kunyomi: あや.しい、なま.めく、わざわ.い Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 妖しい (あや.しい)	bewitched 妖 画数7 458 Details Story Dictionary 妖 bewitched Heisig's You are bewitched by a woman who is, of course, a witch. Koohii #1 If you don´t want to get bewitched (and who would?), then avoid any woman you see carrying what might appear to be a sapling. It´s really a wand in disguise, and if you´re not aware you might get bewitched. Koohii #2 I was bewitched by the woman fairy (like an angel, but not as tall). Primitives bewitched, woman, sapling Kunyomi: あや.しい、なま.めく、わざわ.い Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 妖しい (あや.しい)
irrigate Details Story Dictionary 沃 irrigate Heisig's Suffering from a drought, the farmers call on a witch who conjures up water to irrigate their crops. Koohii #1 You use water to irrigate your saplings. Koohii #2 A fairy needs a lot of water to irrigate those beating wings, so you have make sure they drink a lot to be well irrigated (see bewitched (#2078). Primitives irrigate, water, water droplets, water pistol, sapling Kunyomi: そそ.ぐ Onyomi: ヨウ、ヨク、オク Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	irrigate 沃 画数7 459 Details Story Dictionary 沃 irrigate Heisig's Suffering from a drought, the farmers call on a witch who conjures up water to irrigate their crops. Koohii #1 You use water to irrigate your saplings. Koohii #2 A fairy needs a lot of water to irrigate those beating wings, so you have make sure they drink a lot to be well irrigated (see bewitched (#2078). Primitives irrigate, water, water droplets, water pistol, sapling Kunyomi: そそ.ぐ Onyomi: ヨウ、ヨク、オク Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
"bridge Details Story Dictionary 橋 bridge Heisig's The bridge shown here is made of trees in their natural form, except that the trunks have been carved into the forms of angels, a sort of ""Ponte degli Angeli."" Koohii #1 The nicest bridge is not in Hollywood or Los Angeles, but in San Francisco. Koohii #2 A small 5 year old child has lost her mother in a tragic death. Her family tells her, ""Don´t worry, your mom is an angel now, in heaven, watching over you."" The small girl takes this very literally and is found one day, gathering pieces of wood. Her dad asks her, ""What are you doing with that wood?"" ""I´m trying to build a bridge to heaven to visit the angels."". Primitives bridge, tree, wood, angel, heavens, mouth, hood, mouth, mouth2 桟橋(さんきょう): wharf, bridge, jetty, pier 橋渡し(はしわたし): bridge building, mediation 鉄橋(てっきょう): railway bridge, iron bridge 橋(はし): bridge Kunyomi: はし Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 橋 (はし)"	"bridge 橋 画数16 460 Details Story Dictionary 橋 bridge Heisig's The bridge shown here is made of trees in their natural form, except that the trunks have been carved into the forms of angels, a sort of ""Ponte degli Angeli."" Koohii #1 The nicest bridge is not in Hollywood or Los Angeles, but in San Francisco. Koohii #2 A small 5 year old child has lost her mother in a tragic death. Her family tells her, ""Don´t worry, your mom is an angel now, in heaven, watching over you."" The small girl takes this very literally and is found one day, gathering pieces of wood. Her dad asks her, ""What are you doing with that wood?"" ""I´m trying to build a bridge to heaven to visit the angels."". Primitives bridge, tree, wood, angel, heavens, mouth, hood, mouth, mouth2 桟橋(さんきょう): wharf, bridge, jetty, pier 橋渡し(はしわたし): bridge building, mediation 鉄橋(てっきょう): railway bridge, iron bridge 橋(はし): bridge Kunyomi: はし Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 橋 (はし)"
attractive Details Story Dictionary 嬌 attractive Heisig's Associating a particularly attractive woman you know with an angel should be no problem. Koohii #1 The most attractive woman in the world is obviously Angelina Jolie. Koohii #2 The most attractive of women are said to resemble angels. Similarly, angelic women tend to be attractive. Primitives attractive, woman, angel, heavens, mouth, hood, mouth, mouth2 Kunyomi: なまめか.しい Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JLPT Level: Compounds:	attractive 嬌 画数15 461 Details Story Dictionary 嬌 attractive Heisig's Associating a particularly attractive woman you know with an angel should be no problem. Koohii #1 The most attractive woman in the world is obviously Angelina Jolie. Koohii #2 The most attractive of women are said to resemble angels. Similarly, angelic women tend to be attractive. Primitives attractive, woman, angel, heavens, mouth, hood, mouth, mouth2 Kunyomi: なまめか.しい Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JLPT Level: Compounds:
stand up Details Story Dictionary 立 stand up Heisig's This picture of a vase standing up has its meaning extended to represent the general posture of anything standing up. * Used as a primitive, it can also mean vase. Using its kanji meaning, think of something standing up that is normally lying down, or something standing up in an unusual way. Koohii #1 A vase that can´t stand up won´t be a vase for long. Koohii #2 He was a stand up guy: he´d lend you the top hat he wears everyday if you asked, and he will turn everything upside down to help you find your tools. Primitives stand up, vase, stand up 確立(かくりつ): establishment 気立て(きだて): disposition, nature 公立(こうりつ): public (institution) 孤立(こりつ): isolation, helplessness 逆立ち(さかだち): handstand, headstand 仕立てる(したてる): to tailor, to make, to prepare, to train, to send (a messenger) 樹立(じゅりつ): establish, create 自立(じりつ): independence, self-reliance 設立(せつりつ): establishment, foundation, institution 創立(そうりつ): establishment, founding, organization 立方(たちかた): dancing (geisha) 立ち寄る(たちよる): to stop by, to drop in for a short visit 中立(ちゅうりつ): neutrality 取り立てる(とりたてる): to collect, to extort, to appoint, to promote 成り立つ(なりたつ): to conclude, to consist of, to be practical (logical feasible viable), to hold true 腹立ち(はらだち): anger 役立つ(やくだつ): to be useful, to be helpful, to serve the purpose 立体(りったい): solid body 立法(りっぽう): legislation, lawmaking 両立(りょうりつ): compatibility, coexistence, standing together 組み立てる(くみたてる): assemble, set up, construct 国立(こくりつ): national 献立(こんだて): menu, program, schedule 私立(しりつ): private (establishment) 成立(せいりつ): coming into existence, arrangements, establishment, completion 対立(たいりつ): confrontation, opposition, antagonism 立ち上がる(たちあがる): stand up 立ち止まる(たちどまる): stop, halt, stand still 立場(たちば): standpoint, position, situation 独立(どくりつ): independence, self-support 目立つ(めだつ): be conspicuous, stand out 夕立(ゆうだち): (sudden) evening shower (rain) 立派(りっぱ): splendid, fine, handsome, elegant, imposing, prominent, legal, legitimate 立てる(たてる): raise, set up 役に立つ(やくにたつ): useful 立つ(たつ): to stand Kunyomi: た.つ、-た.つ、た.ち-、た.てる、-た.てる、た.て-、たて-、-た.て、-だ.て、-だ.てる Onyomi: リツ、リュウ、リットル Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 立案 (りつあん), 起立 (きりつ), 独立 (どくりつ), 立つ (た.つ), 立てる (た.てる)	stand up 立 画数5 462 Details Story Dictionary 立 stand up Heisig's This picture of a vase standing up has its meaning extended to represent the general posture of anything standing up. * Used as a primitive, it can also mean vase. Using its kanji meaning, think of something standing up that is normally lying down, or something standing up in an unusual way. Koohii #1 A vase that can´t stand up won´t be a vase for long. Koohii #2 He was a stand up guy: he´d lend you the top hat he wears everyday if you asked, and he will turn everything upside down to help you find your tools. Primitives stand up, vase, stand up 確立(かくりつ): establishment 気立て(きだて): disposition, nature 公立(こうりつ): public (institution) 孤立(こりつ): isolation, helplessness 逆立ち(さかだち): handstand, headstand 仕立てる(したてる): to tailor, to make, to prepare, to train, to send (a messenger) 樹立(じゅりつ): establish, create 自立(じりつ): independence, self-reliance 設立(せつりつ): establishment, foundation, institution 創立(そうりつ): establishment, founding, organization 立方(たちかた): dancing (geisha) 立ち寄る(たちよる): to stop by, to drop in for a short visit 中立(ちゅうりつ): neutrality 取り立てる(とりたてる): to collect, to extort, to appoint, to promote 成り立つ(なりたつ): to conclude, to consist of, to be practical (logical feasible viable), to hold true 腹立ち(はらだち): anger 役立つ(やくだつ): to be useful, to be helpful, to serve the purpose 立体(りったい): solid body 立法(りっぽう): legislation, lawmaking 両立(りょうりつ): compatibility, coexistence, standing together 組み立てる(くみたてる): assemble, set up, construct 国立(こくりつ): national 献立(こんだて): menu, program, schedule 私立(しりつ): private (establishment) 成立(せいりつ): coming into existence, arrangements, establishment, completion 対立(たいりつ): confrontation, opposition, antagonism 立ち上がる(たちあがる): stand up 立ち止まる(たちどまる): stop, halt, stand still 立場(たちば): standpoint, position, situation 独立(どくりつ): independence, self-support 目立つ(めだつ): be conspicuous, stand out 夕立(ゆうだち): (sudden) evening shower (rain) 立派(りっぱ): splendid, fine, handsome, elegant, imposing, prominent, legal, legitimate 立てる(たてる): raise, set up 役に立つ(やくにたつ): useful 立つ(たつ): to stand Kunyomi: た.つ、-た.つ、た.ち-、た.てる、-た.てる、た.て-、たて-、-た.て、-だ.て、-だ.てる Onyomi: リツ、リュウ、リットル Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 立案 (りつあん), 起立 (きりつ), 独立 (どくりつ), 立つ (た.つ), 立てる (た.てる)
cry Details Story Dictionary 泣 cry Heisig's One cries and cries until one is standing up knee-deep in water (or until one has a vase-full of water). Koohii #1 Guys have two ways of watering when they are standing, the less common one is crying. Koohii #2 She stood up to leave the room when her eyes started to water... Primitives cry, water, water droplets, water pistol, vase, stand up 泣く(なく): cry Kunyomi: な.く Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 泣く (な.く)	cry 泣 画数8 463 Details Story Dictionary 泣 cry Heisig's One cries and cries until one is standing up knee-deep in water (or until one has a vase-full of water). Koohii #1 Guys have two ways of watering when they are standing, the less common one is crying. Koohii #2 She stood up to leave the room when her eyes started to water... Primitives cry, water, water droplets, water pistol, vase, stand up 泣く(なく): cry Kunyomi: な.く Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 泣く (な.く)
"badge Details Story Dictionary 章 badge Heisig's Try to imagine a club badge pinned to your lapel in the form of a mammoth sunflower protruding from a wee little vase. Koohii #1 In the military, badges are given out early in the day, with everyone standing at attention. Koohii #2 Ash Ketchum stood up early in the morning, and said, ""Pikachu, let´s go get us another badge!"". Primitives badge, vase, stand up, sunflower, early, sun, day, ten, needle 章(しょう): chapter, section, medal 文章(ぶんしょう): sentence, article Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"badge 章 画数11 464 Details Story Dictionary 章 badge Heisig's Try to imagine a club badge pinned to your lapel in the form of a mammoth sunflower protruding from a wee little vase. Koohii #1 In the military, badges are given out early in the day, with everyone standing at attention. Koohii #2 Ash Ketchum stood up early in the morning, and said, ""Pikachu, let´s go get us another badge!"". Primitives badge, vase, stand up, sunflower, early, sun, day, ten, needle 章(しょう): chapter, section, medal 文章(ぶんしょう): sentence, article Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
vie Details Story Dictionary 競 vie Heisig's Two teenagers are seen here standing up to one another, vying for the attention of their peers. Koohii #1 TWO twin BROTHERS are competing (VYING) for the title of who is the older BROTHER. The game is that they must balance a VASE on their head and the one who drops his looses and becomes the younger BROTHER! Koohii #2 Two crazy brothers vying for the guiness records books of stupidity by trying to stand on their heads the longest. Primitives vie, vase, stand up, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs, vase2, stand up2, elder brother2, teenager2, mouth2, human legs2 競技(きょうぎ): game, match, contest 競馬(けいば): horse racing 競争(きょうそう): compete Kunyomi: きそ.う、せ.る Onyomi: キョウ、ケイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 競争 (きょうそう), 競技 (きょうぎ), 競泳 (きょうえい), 競う (きそ.う), 競る (せ.る)	vie 競 画数20 465 Details Story Dictionary 競 vie Heisig's Two teenagers are seen here standing up to one another, vying for the attention of their peers. Koohii #1 TWO twin BROTHERS are competing (VYING) for the title of who is the older BROTHER. The game is that they must balance a VASE on their head and the one who drops his looses and becomes the younger BROTHER! Koohii #2 Two crazy brothers vying for the guiness records books of stupidity by trying to stand on their heads the longest. Primitives vie, vase, stand up, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs, vase2, stand up2, elder brother2, teenager2, mouth2, human legs2 競技(きょうぎ): game, match, contest 競馬(けいば): horse racing 競争(きょうそう): compete Kunyomi: きそ.う、せ.る Onyomi: キョウ、ケイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 競争 (きょうそう), 競技 (きょうぎ), 競泳 (きょうえい), 競う (きそ.う), 競る (せ.る)
"sovereign Details Story Dictionary 帝 sovereign My Story [Stand up + towel {巾}] Koohii #1 The crazy sovereign stands up from his throne, wearing nothing but a crown and a towel. That´s why they try to keep him locked up in the castle away from the public. Koohii #2 This one is so tricky for me. The key is to remember that the bottom stroke on the standing element takes those little crown ""winglets"" on the right and left. The most effective image might be of QEII (who is quite short) using her crown as a kind of stool. She´s standing on her crown rummaging through a high cupboard looking for her apron. I guess the sovereign´s servants have the day off. Primitives sovereign, vase, stand up, apron, crown, towel Kunyomi: みかど Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"sovereign 帝 画数9 466 Details Story Dictionary 帝 sovereign My Story [Stand up + towel {巾}] Koohii #1 The crazy sovereign stands up from his throne, wearing nothing but a crown and a towel. That´s why they try to keep him locked up in the castle away from the public. Koohii #2 This one is so tricky for me. The key is to remember that the bottom stroke on the standing element takes those little crown ""winglets"" on the right and left. The most effective image might be of QEII (who is quite short) using her crown as a kind of stool. She´s standing on her crown rummaging through a high cupboard looking for her apron. I guess the sovereign´s servants have the day off. Primitives sovereign, vase, stand up, apron, crown, towel Kunyomi: みかど Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"renunciation Details Story Dictionary 諦 renunciation Heisig's The key word renunciation has to do with the wisdom and clarity of mind in knowing when to ""let go."" This is what makes the words of acquiescense sovern. Koohii #1 The words of the sovereign king inspire the people: never give up! Never surrender! Okay...maybe it wasn´t a king. Koohii #2 Anytime I think to give up Japanese, I remember giving my word that I would become sovereign of Japanese! And I watch あきら to get pumped about it. Note: to give up - 諦める is read あきらめる). Primitives give up, say, words, keitai, mouth, sovereign, vase, stand up, apron, crown, towel 諦め(あきらめ): resignation, acceptance, consolation 諦める(あきらめる): give up, abandon Kunyomi: あき.らめる、あきら.める、つまびらか、まこと Onyomi: テイ、タイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 諦める (あきら.める)"	"renunciation 諦 画数16 467 Details Story Dictionary 諦 renunciation Heisig's The key word renunciation has to do with the wisdom and clarity of mind in knowing when to ""let go."" This is what makes the words of acquiescense sovern. Koohii #1 The words of the sovereign king inspire the people: never give up! Never surrender! Okay...maybe it wasn´t a king. Koohii #2 Anytime I think to give up Japanese, I remember giving my word that I would become sovereign of Japanese! And I watch あきら to get pumped about it. Note: to give up - 諦める is read あきらめる). Primitives give up, say, words, keitai, mouth, sovereign, vase, stand up, apron, crown, towel 諦め(あきらめ): resignation, acceptance, consolation 諦める(あきらめる): give up, abandon Kunyomi: あき.らめる、あきら.める、つまびらか、まこと Onyomi: テイ、タイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 諦める (あきら.める)"
juvenile Details Story Dictionary 童 juvenile Heisig's This frame shows up the image of a juvenile hacker standing on top of a computer, or rather jumping up and down on it, because it refused to come up with the right answer. Koohii #1 The juvenile stood on top of his computer and broke it. Noob. Koohii #2 The movie Zoolander is a little JUVENILE and silly, but I love it nonetheless. Just remember Owen Wilson standing on the desk, hitting the computer like a monkey. (The files are IN the computer - IN the computer...). Primitives juvenile, vase, stand up, computer 児童(じどう): children, juvenile 童話(どうわ): fairy-tale Kunyomi: わらべ Onyomi: ドウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 童 (わらべ)	juvenile 童 画数12 468 Details Story Dictionary 童 juvenile Heisig's This frame shows up the image of a juvenile hacker standing on top of a computer, or rather jumping up and down on it, because it refused to come up with the right answer. Koohii #1 The juvenile stood on top of his computer and broke it. Noob. Koohii #2 The movie Zoolander is a little JUVENILE and silly, but I love it nonetheless. Just remember Owen Wilson standing on the desk, hitting the computer like a monkey. (The files are IN the computer - IN the computer...). Primitives juvenile, vase, stand up, computer 児童(じどう): children, juvenile 童話(どうわ): fairy-tale Kunyomi: わらべ Onyomi: ドウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 童 (わらべ)
"pupil Details Story Dictionary 瞳 pupil Heisig's Begin with the double meaning of the key word pupil: ""student"" and the ""the apple of one's eye."" Now all you have to do is dwell on the phrase ""juvenile of one's eye"" (the meaning here) until it provides you with an image. Koohii #1 In Japanese comics, the eye´s of juvenilles all have enormouse pupils. Koohii #2 WARNING: This kanji only means the pupil of the eye. It can be confusing to use a story that has pupil meaning student in it. Primitives pupil, eye, juvenile, vase, stand up, computer 瞳(ひとみ): eye, pupil (of eye) Kunyomi: ひとみ Onyomi: ドウ、トウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 瞳 (ひとみ)"	"pupil 瞳 画数17 469 Details Story Dictionary 瞳 pupil Heisig's Begin with the double meaning of the key word pupil: ""student"" and the ""the apple of one's eye."" Now all you have to do is dwell on the phrase ""juvenile of one's eye"" (the meaning here) until it provides you with an image. Koohii #1 In Japanese comics, the eye´s of juvenilles all have enormouse pupils. Koohii #2 WARNING: This kanji only means the pupil of the eye. It can be confusing to use a story that has pupil meaning student in it. Primitives pupil, eye, juvenile, vase, stand up, computer 瞳(ひとみ): eye, pupil (of eye) Kunyomi: ひとみ Onyomi: ドウ、トウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 瞳 (ひとみ)"
"bell Details Story Dictionary 鐘 bell Heisig's This bell is made of cheap metal, and so badly made that when you ring it, it lets out a noise like the ""bellowing"" of juveniles who aren't getting their own way. Koohii #1 The METAL bell rings to call the JUVENILES to class. Koohii #2 The METAL bell rings to call the JUVENILES to COMPUTER class. Primitives bell, metal, gold, juvenile, vase, stand up, computer 釣鐘(つりがね): hanging bell 鐘(かね): bell, chime Kunyomi: かね Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鐘 (かね)"	"bell 鐘 画数20 470 Details Story Dictionary 鐘 bell Heisig's This bell is made of cheap metal, and so badly made that when you ring it, it lets out a noise like the ""bellowing"" of juveniles who aren't getting their own way. Koohii #1 The METAL bell rings to call the JUVENILES to class. Koohii #2 The METAL bell rings to call the JUVENILES to COMPUTER class. Primitives bell, metal, gold, juvenile, vase, stand up, computer 釣鐘(つりがね): hanging bell 鐘(かね): bell, chime Kunyomi: かね Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鐘 (かね)"
"make a deal Details Story Dictionary 商 make a deal Heisig's See the peddlar standing atop his motorcycle helmet as if it were a soapbox, hawking his wares to passersby. The legs and mouth represent the tools of the trade of making a deal any way you can. Koohii #1 I use what I think is the real etymology for this kanji which is so shocking it sticks. The STANDING member at the top is a certain part of the body that all men have and it is approaching the HOLE between TWO LEGS (the HOOD) with extra marks to show they are FLESHY - ie a womans legs. So this shows the oldest DEAL of all time - prostitution. Koohii #2 Slick Willy standing on the motorcycle helmet he´s trying to sell you to demonstrate how rugged it is. His legs crash through the top of it and after a moment of awkward silence his mouth opens and says, ""hey, we can still make a deal."". Primitives make a deal, vase, stand up, alien, hood, human legs, mouth 商人(あきうど): trader, shopkeeper, merchant 商(しょう): quotient 商業(しょうぎょう): commerce, trade, business 商社(しょうしゃ): trading company, firm 商店(しょうてん): shop, business firm 商人(しょうにん): trader, shopkeeper, merchant 商売(しょうばい): trade, business, commerce, transaction, occupation 商品(しょうひん): commodity, goods, stock, merchandise Kunyomi: あきな.う Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 商う (あきな.う)"	"make a deal 商 画数11 471 Details Story Dictionary 商 make a deal Heisig's See the peddlar standing atop his motorcycle helmet as if it were a soapbox, hawking his wares to passersby. The legs and mouth represent the tools of the trade of making a deal any way you can. Koohii #1 I use what I think is the real etymology for this kanji which is so shocking it sticks. The STANDING member at the top is a certain part of the body that all men have and it is approaching the HOLE between TWO LEGS (the HOOD) with extra marks to show they are FLESHY - ie a womans legs. So this shows the oldest DEAL of all time - prostitution. Koohii #2 Slick Willy standing on the motorcycle helmet he´s trying to sell you to demonstrate how rugged it is. His legs crash through the top of it and after a moment of awkward silence his mouth opens and says, ""hey, we can still make a deal."". Primitives make a deal, vase, stand up, alien, hood, human legs, mouth 商人(あきうど): trader, shopkeeper, merchant 商(しょう): quotient 商業(しょうぎょう): commerce, trade, business 商社(しょうしゃ): trading company, firm 商店(しょうてん): shop, business firm 商人(しょうにん): trader, shopkeeper, merchant 商売(しょうばい): trade, business, commerce, transaction, occupation 商品(しょうひん): commodity, goods, stock, merchandise Kunyomi: あきな.う Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 商う (あきな.う)"
"legitimate wife Details Story Dictionary 嫡 legitimate wife Heisig's The phrase legitimate wife would have no meaning if there were not such things as ""illegitimate wives,"" taken because one's legal woman has turned into an antique. The very offense of the idea should help you remember the kanji. Koohii #1 Legitmate wifes tend to be women who are antiques in contrast to the young bit of illigitmate fluff on the side. Koohii #2 Your legitimate wife is like an antique bong. Its not your favorite but you still hit it sometimes... Primitives legitimate wife, woman, antique, vase, stand up, hood, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth Kunyomi: Onyomi: チャク、テキ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"legitimate wife 嫡 画数14 472 Details Story Dictionary 嫡 legitimate wife Heisig's The phrase legitimate wife would have no meaning if there were not such things as ""illegitimate wives,"" taken because one's legal woman has turned into an antique. The very offense of the idea should help you remember the kanji. Koohii #1 Legitmate wifes tend to be women who are antiques in contrast to the young bit of illigitmate fluff on the side. Koohii #2 Your legitimate wife is like an antique bong. Its not your favorite but you still hit it sometimes... Primitives legitimate wife, woman, antique, vase, stand up, hood, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth Kunyomi: Onyomi: チャク、テキ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"suitable Details Story Dictionary 適 suitable My Story [Antique (prim) + Motion/movement] The ninja's *movements* are *antique*, but very suitable for the time period Koohii #1 Think of the term from televison ""suitable for all audiences"" to get the sense of the word. What program could be more suitable for the whole family than the ""antiques road(show)"". Koohii #2 That old thing in your attic might be suitable to be shown on the Antiques Roadshow. Primitives suitable, antique, vase, stand up, hood, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth, road 適応(てきおう): adaptation, accommodation, conformity 適確(てきかく): precise, accurate 適宜(てきぎ): suitability 適性(てきせい): aptitude 快適(かいてき): pleasant, agreeable, comfortable 適する(てきする): fit, suit 適切(てきせつ): pertinent, appropriate, adequate, relevance 適度(てきど): moderate 適用(てきよう): applying 適当(てきとう): appropriate Kunyomi: かな.う Onyomi: テキ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"suitable 適 画数14 473 Details Story Dictionary 適 suitable My Story [Antique (prim) + Motion/movement] The ninja's *movements* are *antique*, but very suitable for the time period Koohii #1 Think of the term from televison ""suitable for all audiences"" to get the sense of the word. What program could be more suitable for the whole family than the ""antiques road(show)"". Koohii #2 That old thing in your attic might be suitable to be shown on the Antiques Roadshow. Primitives suitable, antique, vase, stand up, hood, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth, road 適応(てきおう): adaptation, accommodation, conformity 適確(てきかく): precise, accurate 適宜(てきぎ): suitability 適性(てきせい): aptitude 快適(かいてき): pleasant, agreeable, comfortable 適する(てきする): fit, suit 適切(てきせつ): pertinent, appropriate, adequate, relevance 適度(てきど): moderate 適用(てきよう): applying 適当(てきとう): appropriate Kunyomi: かな.う Onyomi: テキ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
drip Details Story Dictionary 滴 drip Heisig's Picture water dripping on what you thought were precious antiques, only to find that the artificial aging painted on them is running! Koohii #1 DRIPS of WATER were collected in ANTIQUE VASES since the museum had a leaky roof. Koohii #2 You must never let water drip onto antiques. Primitives drip, water, water droplets, water pistol, antique, vase, stand up, hood, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 水滴(すいてき): drop of water Kunyomi: しずく、したた.る Onyomi: テキ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 滴 (しずく), 滴る (したた.る)	drip 滴 画数14 474 Details Story Dictionary 滴 drip Heisig's Picture water dripping on what you thought were precious antiques, only to find that the artificial aging painted on them is running! Koohii #1 DRIPS of WATER were collected in ANTIQUE VASES since the museum had a leaky roof. Koohii #2 You must never let water drip onto antiques. Primitives drip, water, water droplets, water pistol, antique, vase, stand up, hood, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 水滴(すいてき): drop of water Kunyomi: しずく、したた.る Onyomi: テキ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 滴 (しずく), 滴る (したた.る)
enemy Details Story Dictionary 敵 enemy My Story [Yosemite Sam/Antique(prim) {啇} + Director] Bugs Bunny was the *ENEMY* of *Yosemite Sam*. (as was the director of the cartoon, which is why Sam always lost!) Koohii #1 The taskmaster became my enemy for life when he smashed the antique vase holding my wife´s ashes. Koohii #2 Indiana Jones is an enemy of taskmasters in search of antique artifacts. RTK2: 　テキ　敵地　てきち(enemy territory)...　　　　　　　　　　　Pure Group:　嫡440　適441　滴442 　摘657. Primitives enemy, antique, vase, stand up, hood, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth, taskmaster 敵(かたき): enemy, rival 素敵(すてき): lovely, dreamy, beautiful, great, fantastic, superb, cool, capital 匹敵(ひってき): comparing with, match, rival, equal 敵(てき): foe, enemy, rival Kunyomi: かたき、あだ、かな.う Onyomi: テキ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 敵 (かたき)	enemy 敵 画数15 475 Details Story Dictionary 敵 enemy My Story [Yosemite Sam/Antique(prim) {啇} + Director] Bugs Bunny was the *ENEMY* of *Yosemite Sam*. (as was the director of the cartoon, which is why Sam always lost!) Koohii #1 The taskmaster became my enemy for life when he smashed the antique vase holding my wife´s ashes. Koohii #2 Indiana Jones is an enemy of taskmasters in search of antique artifacts. RTK2: 　テキ　敵地　てきち(enemy territory)...　　　　　　　　　　　Pure Group:　嫡440　適441　滴442 　摘657. Primitives enemy, antique, vase, stand up, hood, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth, taskmaster 敵(かたき): enemy, rival 素敵(すてき): lovely, dreamy, beautiful, great, fantastic, superb, cool, capital 匹敵(ひってき): comparing with, match, rival, equal 敵(てき): foe, enemy, rival Kunyomi: かたき、あだ、かな.う Onyomi: テキ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 敵 (かたき)
spoon Details Story Dictionary 匕 spoon Heisig's This character, a pictograph of a spoon, is easy enough to remember, provided you keep it distinct from that for seven, where the first stroke is written left to right (the opposite of here) and cuts noticeably across the second. * As a primitive, this kanji can take on the additional meaning of someone sitting on the ground, of which it can also be considered a pictograph. In general, the second stroke does not cut through the first - or if it does in some fonts, only slightly. Koohii #1 To remember the primitive meaning, picture someone sitting on the ground performing Seppuku...with a spoon. http://tinyurl.com/co48k. Koohii #2 Not only is stroke order important, but also be sure to note the direction of a stroke. In both ´spoon´ and ´seven´, the first stroke is the horizontal one - but here it is written right to left in a downward flick, while in ´seven´ it is a strong line from left to right. Primitives spoon, sitting on the ground Kunyomi: さじ、さじのひ Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JLPT Level: Compounds:	spoon 匕 画数2 476 Details Story Dictionary 匕 spoon Heisig's This character, a pictograph of a spoon, is easy enough to remember, provided you keep it distinct from that for seven, where the first stroke is written left to right (the opposite of here) and cuts noticeably across the second. * As a primitive, this kanji can take on the additional meaning of someone sitting on the ground, of which it can also be considered a pictograph. In general, the second stroke does not cut through the first - or if it does in some fonts, only slightly. Koohii #1 To remember the primitive meaning, picture someone sitting on the ground performing Seppuku...with a spoon. http://tinyurl.com/co48k. Koohii #2 Not only is stroke order important, but also be sure to note the direction of a stroke. In both ´spoon´ and ´seven´, the first stroke is the horizontal one - but here it is written right to left in a downward flick, while in ´seven´ it is a strong line from left to right. Primitives spoon, sitting on the ground Kunyomi: さじ、さじのひ Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JLPT Level: Compounds:
scold Details Story Dictionary 叱 scold Heisig's Recall some particularly harsh scolding you got as a child in school. This character has you sitting on the ground in the corner as your teacher stands over you, her mouth wide open as she reprimands you in front of the entire class. Koohii #1 A kid gets scolded if they don´t put the spoon properly into their mouth when eating. Koohii #2 If I got scolded, I could expect a spoon of castor oil in my mouth. Primitives scold, mouth, diced, seven, spoon, sitting on the ground 叱る(しかる): scold Kunyomi: しか.る Onyomi: シツ、シチ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 叱る (しか.る)	scold 叱 画数5 477 Details Story Dictionary 叱 scold Heisig's Recall some particularly harsh scolding you got as a child in school. This character has you sitting on the ground in the corner as your teacher stands over you, her mouth wide open as she reprimands you in front of the entire class. Koohii #1 A kid gets scolded if they don´t put the spoon properly into their mouth when eating. Koohii #2 If I got scolded, I could expect a spoon of castor oil in my mouth. Primitives scold, mouth, diced, seven, spoon, sitting on the ground 叱る(しかる): scold Kunyomi: しか.る Onyomi: シツ、シチ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 叱る (しか.る)
"aroma Details Story Dictionary 匂 aroma Heisig's You will have to imagine ""capturing"" a favorite aroma by having it gagged and bound up in a spoon. Koohii #1 The muchacho sits down bound up to enjoy his own aroma. Koohii #2 If you bind up a person and let him sit for several days, an unpleasant aroma will result. Primitives aroma, bound up, spoon, sitting on the ground 匂い(におい): odour, scent, smell, stench, fragrance, aroma, perfume 匂う(におう): be fragrant, smell, to stink, glow, be bright Kunyomi: にお.う、にお.い、にお.わせる Onyomi: Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 匂う (にお.う)"	"aroma 匂 画数4 478 Details Story Dictionary 匂 aroma Heisig's You will have to imagine ""capturing"" a favorite aroma by having it gagged and bound up in a spoon. Koohii #1 The muchacho sits down bound up to enjoy his own aroma. Koohii #2 If you bind up a person and let him sit for several days, an unpleasant aroma will result. Primitives aroma, bound up, spoon, sitting on the ground 匂い(におい): odour, scent, smell, stench, fragrance, aroma, perfume 匂う(におう): be fragrant, smell, to stink, glow, be bright Kunyomi: にお.う、にお.い、にお.わせる Onyomi: Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 匂う (にお.う)"
about that time Details Story Dictionary 頃 about that time My Story [ヒ + head] *ヒ* gets *head* from his GF at #about that time# of the day Koohii #1 An alarm clock with a unique design: You set it for, say, 7:00 am, and at about that time the clock reaches out with a spoon and hits you on the head. Koohii #2 After spooning for hours it´s about that time he got some head. Dayum woman. Primitives about that time, spoon, sitting on the ground, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 頃(けい): time, about, toward, approximately (time) この頃(このごろ): recently 年頃(としごろ): age, marriageable age, age of puberty, adolescence, for some years 日頃(ひごろ): normally, habitually 一頃(ひところ): once, some time ago 頃(ころ): time, about, toward, approximately (time) 近頃(ちかごろ): lately, recently, nowadays 手頃(てごろ): moderate, handy Kunyomi: ころ、ごろ、しばら.く Onyomi: ケイ、キョウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 頃 (ころ)	about that time 頃 画数11 479 Details Story Dictionary 頃 about that time My Story [ヒ + head] *ヒ* gets *head* from his GF at #about that time# of the day Koohii #1 An alarm clock with a unique design: You set it for, say, 7:00 am, and at about that time the clock reaches out with a spoon and hits you on the head. Koohii #2 After spooning for hours it´s about that time he got some head. Dayum woman. Primitives about that time, spoon, sitting on the ground, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 頃(けい): time, about, toward, approximately (time) この頃(このごろ): recently 年頃(としごろ): age, marriageable age, age of puberty, adolescence, for some years 日頃(ひごろ): normally, habitually 一頃(ひところ): once, some time ago 頃(ころ): time, about, toward, approximately (time) 近頃(ちかごろ): lately, recently, nowadays 手頃(てごろ): moderate, handy Kunyomi: ころ、ごろ、しばら.く Onyomi: ケイ、キョウ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 頃 (ころ)
north Details Story Dictionary 北 north Heisig's The cold air from the north is so strong that we see two people sitting on the ground back to back, their arms interlocked so they don't blow away. (Pay special attention to the drawing of the first 3 strokes.) Koohii #1 Warning: The left part is NOT the primitive turtle! The stroke order is different. Sometimes it will look exactly the same but not always depending on the font / style used to draw this character. Be sure to study the difference! Koohii #2 In the north, the weather is so cold that people are often seen sitting back to back to preserve warmth. Primitives north, spoon, sitting on the ground 南北(なんぼく): south and north 北極(ほっきょく): North Pole 北(きた): north Kunyomi: きた Onyomi: ホク Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 北 (きた)	north 北 画数5 480 Details Story Dictionary 北 north Heisig's The cold air from the north is so strong that we see two people sitting on the ground back to back, their arms interlocked so they don't blow away. (Pay special attention to the drawing of the first 3 strokes.) Koohii #1 Warning: The left part is NOT the primitive turtle! The stroke order is different. Sometimes it will look exactly the same but not always depending on the font / style used to draw this character. Be sure to study the difference! Koohii #2 In the north, the weather is so cold that people are often seen sitting back to back to preserve warmth. Primitives north, spoon, sitting on the ground 南北(なんぼく): south and north 北極(ほっきょく): North Pole 北(きた): north Kunyomi: きた Onyomi: ホク Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 北 (きた)
"stature Details Story Dictionary 背 stature Heisig's One's stature is measured according to the ""northern-most"" part of the body. Koohii #1 While japanese people are generally small, people in the northern contryes have taller stature because of all the flesh they eat! Koohii #2 Up in the Great White North, we eat a lot of meat - thus giving us great STATURE. Mmmm.... baby seals. Primitives stature, north, spoon, sitting on the ground, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 背負う(しょう): to be burdened with, to carry on back or shoulder 背く(そむく): to run counter to, to go against, to disobey, to infringe 背景(はいけい): background, scenery, setting, circumstance 背後(はいご): back, rear 背(せ): height, stature 背負う(せおう): be burdened with, carry on back or shoulder 背中(せなか): back 背(せい): height, stature 背広(せびろ): business suit Kunyomi: せ、せい、そむ.く、そむ.ける Onyomi: ハイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 背 (せ), 背 (せい), 背く (そむ.く), 背ける (そむ.ける)"	"stature 背 画数9 481 Details Story Dictionary 背 stature Heisig's One's stature is measured according to the ""northern-most"" part of the body. Koohii #1 While japanese people are generally small, people in the northern contryes have taller stature because of all the flesh they eat! Koohii #2 Up in the Great White North, we eat a lot of meat - thus giving us great STATURE. Mmmm.... baby seals. Primitives stature, north, spoon, sitting on the ground, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 背負う(しょう): to be burdened with, to carry on back or shoulder 背く(そむく): to run counter to, to go against, to disobey, to infringe 背景(はいけい): background, scenery, setting, circumstance 背後(はいご): back, rear 背(せ): height, stature 背負う(せおう): be burdened with, carry on back or shoulder 背中(せなか): back 背(せい): height, stature 背広(せびろ): business suit Kunyomi: せ、せい、そむ.く、そむ.ける Onyomi: ハイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 背 (せ), 背 (せい), 背く (そむ.く), 背ける (そむ.ける)"
compare Details Story Dictionary 比 compare Heisig's With two spoons, one in each hand, you are comparing your mother's cooking with your mother-in-law's. Koohii #1 A gay couple about to turn around to compare which role is better... Koohii #2 Compare the two spoons... the one on the left is funny-looking. Primitives compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 対比(たいひ): contrast, comparison 比重(ひじゅう): specific gravity 比率(ひりつ): ratio, proportion, percentage 比例(ひれい): proportion 比較(ひかく): comparison 比較的(ひかくてき): comparatively, relatively 比べる(くらべる): compare Kunyomi: くら.べる Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 比べる (くら.べる)	compare 比 画数4 482 Details Story Dictionary 比 compare Heisig's With two spoons, one in each hand, you are comparing your mother's cooking with your mother-in-law's. Koohii #1 A gay couple about to turn around to compare which role is better... Koohii #2 Compare the two spoons... the one on the left is funny-looking. Primitives compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 対比(たいひ): contrast, comparison 比重(ひじゅう): specific gravity 比率(ひりつ): ratio, proportion, percentage 比例(ひれい): proportion 比較(ひかく): comparison 比較的(ひかくてき): comparatively, relatively 比べる(くらべる): compare Kunyomi: くら.べる Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 比べる (くら.べる)
"descendants Details Story Dictionary 昆 descendants Heisig's By comparing apes with anthropoids, we not only discover the latter have descended from those progenitors educated in the higher branches, but that the very idea of seeing everything descended from everything else, one way or another, means that there is ""nothing new UNDER the sun."" Koohii #1 Grandparent spends all DAY COMPARING photos of their DESCENDANTS. Koohii #2 Japanese people have compared themselves as being descendants of the sun. (Amaterasu, the sun godesss). Sun, comparing = descendants. Primitives descendants, sun, day, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 昆虫(こんちゅう): insect, bug Kunyomi: Onyomi: コン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"descendants 昆 画数8 483 Details Story Dictionary 昆 descendants Heisig's By comparing apes with anthropoids, we not only discover the latter have descended from those progenitors educated in the higher branches, but that the very idea of seeing everything descended from everything else, one way or another, means that there is ""nothing new UNDER the sun."" Koohii #1 Grandparent spends all DAY COMPARING photos of their DESCENDANTS. Koohii #2 Japanese people have compared themselves as being descendants of the sun. (Amaterasu, the sun godesss). Sun, comparing = descendants. Primitives descendants, sun, day, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 昆虫(こんちゅう): insect, bug Kunyomi: Onyomi: コン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"all Details Story Dictionary 皆 all Heisig's Think of the housewives in TV commercials ""comparing the whiteness"" of their laundry across the fence, a typical advertisement for the popular detergent known as All. (If you don't know the brand, surely you've heard the phrases ""all-purpose detergent"" or ""all-temperature detergent."") Koohii #1 If you compare colors, you will find that white is produced from the mix of all the others. Koohii #2 Sometimes, Dr. Heisig´s keyword choices are really quite bizarre. This doesn´t mean all, it means everyone!! Picture two ku klux klansmen comparing whose skin is whiter...finally, they agree that everyone there is white. Primitives all, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, white, dove, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 皆(みな): all, everything 皆さん(みなさん): everyone Kunyomi: みな、みんな Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 皆 (みな)"	"all 皆 画数9 484 Details Story Dictionary 皆 all Heisig's Think of the housewives in TV commercials ""comparing the whiteness"" of their laundry across the fence, a typical advertisement for the popular detergent known as All. (If you don't know the brand, surely you've heard the phrases ""all-purpose detergent"" or ""all-temperature detergent."") Koohii #1 If you compare colors, you will find that white is produced from the mix of all the others. Koohii #2 Sometimes, Dr. Heisig´s keyword choices are really quite bizarre. This doesn´t mean all, it means everyone!! Picture two ku klux klansmen comparing whose skin is whiter...finally, they agree that everyone there is white. Primitives all, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, white, dove, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 皆(みな): all, everything 皆さん(みなさん): everyone Kunyomi: みな、みんな Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 皆 (みな)"
"block letters Details Story Dictionary 楷 block letters Heisig's The key word refers to kanji that are written in full, squared form, as opposed to cursive writing which is more flowing andabbreviates some of the strokes. Here block letters are pictured as tidy rows of trees that are all the same size and can be read easily by all, whatever calligraphic skills they possess. Koohii #1 Block letters (as opposed to cursive) are rigid and lifeless like wood; they're all the same size so that all can read them. Koohii #2 all the hiragana are in ""block letters"" on wooden blocks, like children's toys. Kunyomi: Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"block letters 楷 画数13 485 Details Story Dictionary 楷 block letters Heisig's The key word refers to kanji that are written in full, squared form, as opposed to cursive writing which is more flowing andabbreviates some of the strokes. Here block letters are pictured as tidy rows of trees that are all the same size and can be read easily by all, whatever calligraphic skills they possess. Koohii #1 Block letters (as opposed to cursive) are rigid and lifeless like wood; they're all the same size so that all can read them. Koohii #2 all the hiragana are in ""block letters"" on wooden blocks, like children's toys. Kunyomi: Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
"orderliness Details Story Dictionary 諧 orderliness Heisig's The harmoney of ""a place for everything and everything in its place"" is applied here to the orderliness of all the words one speaks. Koohii #1 To have orderliness, your words must be in all the right places. Koohii #2 起立(きりつ)！ Hearing these words, all the students immediately stand at attention. The orderliness of classes in Japan is incredible. Kunyomi: かな.う、 やわ.らぐ Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"orderliness 諧 画数16 486 Details Story Dictionary 諧 orderliness Heisig's The harmoney of ""a place for everything and everything in its place"" is applied here to the orderliness of all the words one speaks. Koohii #1 To have orderliness, your words must be in all the right places. Koohii #2 起立(きりつ)！ Hearing these words, all the students immediately stand at attention. The orderliness of classes in Japan is incredible. Kunyomi: かな.う、 やわ.らぐ Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
mix Details Story Dictionary 混 mix My Story Water and the Sun are not comparable; they dont mix well Koohii #1 People have to mix their fluids (have sex), in order to create descendants. Koohii #2 Give plants the right mix of water and sun. Then compare the results...　RTK2:　コン　混乱　こんらん(disorder). Primitives mix, water, water droplets, water pistol, descendants, sun, day, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 混む(こむ): to be crowded 混血(こんけつ): mixed race, mixed parentage 混同(こんどう): confusion, mixing, merger 取り混ぜる(とりまぜる): to mix, to put together 混ざる(まざる): to be mixed, to be blended with, to associate with, to mingle with, to join 混じる(まじる): to be mixed, to be blended with, to associate with, to mingle with, to interest, to join 混合(こんごう): mixing, mixture 混雑(こんざつ): confusion, congestion 混乱(こんらん): disorder, chaos, confusion, mayhem 混ぜる(まぜる): mix, stir Kunyomi: ま.じる、-ま.じり、ま.ざる、ま.ぜる、こ.む Onyomi: コン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 混ざる (ま.ざる), 混じる (ま.じる), 混ぜる (ま.ぜる)	mix 混 画数11 487 Details Story Dictionary 混 mix My Story Water and the Sun are not comparable; they dont mix well Koohii #1 People have to mix their fluids (have sex), in order to create descendants. Koohii #2 Give plants the right mix of water and sun. Then compare the results...　RTK2:　コン　混乱　こんらん(disorder). Primitives mix, water, water droplets, water pistol, descendants, sun, day, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 混む(こむ): to be crowded 混血(こんけつ): mixed race, mixed parentage 混同(こんどう): confusion, mixing, merger 取り混ぜる(とりまぜる): to mix, to put together 混ざる(まざる): to be mixed, to be blended with, to associate with, to mingle with, to join 混じる(まじる): to be mixed, to be blended with, to associate with, to mingle with, to interest, to join 混合(こんごう): mixing, mixture 混雑(こんざつ): confusion, congestion 混乱(こんらん): disorder, chaos, confusion, mayhem 混ぜる(まぜる): mix, stir Kunyomi: ま.じる、-ま.じり、ま.ざる、ま.ぜる、こ.む Onyomi: コン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 混ざる (ま.ざる), 混じる (ま.じる), 混ぜる (ま.ぜる)
thirst Details Story Dictionary 渇 thirst Heisig's As you pass by the muchacho taking the siesta, he cries out that he is thirsty and asks for something to drink. So you turn the water hose on him. Koohii #1 You awaken from your siesta because you feel extremely thirsty so you go looking for some water. Koohii #2 The muchacho taking his SIESTA cries out that he is THIRSTY. So you pull out a bottle of WATER and pretend you´re going to give it to him...but then you dump it all on the ground before his eyes. HAHA, sucked in muchacho!! Primitives thirst, water, water droplets, water pistol, mexican bandit, muchacho, siesta, sun, day, aroma, bound up, spoon, sitting on the ground 渇く(かわく): be thirsty Kunyomi: かわ.く Onyomi: カツ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 渇く (かわ.く)	thirst 渇 画数11 488 Details Story Dictionary 渇 thirst Heisig's As you pass by the muchacho taking the siesta, he cries out that he is thirsty and asks for something to drink. So you turn the water hose on him. Koohii #1 You awaken from your siesta because you feel extremely thirsty so you go looking for some water. Koohii #2 The muchacho taking his SIESTA cries out that he is THIRSTY. So you pull out a bottle of WATER and pretend you´re going to give it to him...but then you dump it all on the ground before his eyes. HAHA, sucked in muchacho!! Primitives thirst, water, water droplets, water pistol, mexican bandit, muchacho, siesta, sun, day, aroma, bound up, spoon, sitting on the ground 渇く(かわく): be thirsty Kunyomi: かわ.く Onyomi: カツ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 渇く (かわ.く)
audience Details Story Dictionary 謁 audience Heisig's Imagine an audience with the emperor or the pope in which all those in attendance are sitting down, leaning against the wall, sleeping like our muchacho on siesta as the honorable host delivers his speech. Koohii #1 The talk was so boring the audience took a siesta. Koohii #2 The man talking during his siesta (in his sleep) is saying strange things and drawing an audience. Primitives audience, say, words, keitai, mouth, mexican bandit, muchacho, siesta, sun, day, aroma, bound up, spoon, sitting on the ground Kunyomi: Onyomi: エツ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	audience 謁 画数15 489 Details Story Dictionary 謁 audience Heisig's Imagine an audience with the emperor or the pope in which all those in attendance are sitting down, leaning against the wall, sleeping like our muchacho on siesta as the honorable host delivers his speech. Koohii #1 The talk was so boring the audience took a siesta. Koohii #2 The man talking during his siesta (in his sleep) is saying strange things and drawing an audience. Primitives audience, say, words, keitai, mouth, mexican bandit, muchacho, siesta, sun, day, aroma, bound up, spoon, sitting on the ground Kunyomi: Onyomi: エツ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
brown Details Story Dictionary 褐 brown Heisig's The color of the serape or cloak of our muchacho on siesta is a dull brown, the color this kanji indicates. Koohii #1 Why is my package late? Imagine a UPS driver dressed in BROWN garments taking a siesta. What can BROWN do for you? Koohii #2 Mexicans use a cloak (pancho) for their siestas. Their color is usually brown. Primitives brown, cloak, mexican bandit, muchacho, siesta, sun, day, aroma, bound up, spoon, sitting on the ground Kunyomi: Onyomi: カツ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	brown 褐 画数13 490 Details Story Dictionary 褐 brown Heisig's The color of the serape or cloak of our muchacho on siesta is a dull brown, the color this kanji indicates. Koohii #1 Why is my package late? Imagine a UPS driver dressed in BROWN garments taking a siesta. What can BROWN do for you? Koohii #2 Mexicans use a cloak (pancho) for their siestas. Their color is usually brown. Primitives brown, cloak, mexican bandit, muchacho, siesta, sun, day, aroma, bound up, spoon, sitting on the ground Kunyomi: Onyomi: カツ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
hoarse Details Story Dictionary 喝 hoarse Heisig's When the muchacho on siesta looks up at you and opens his mouth to talk, his voice is so hoarse that you cannot understand him. Koohii #1 If you have a siesta with your mouthopen, you will wake up with a hoarse voice. Koohii #2 After taking a siesta, you find that your mouth is hoarse (after all you ARE thirsty remember). Primitives hoarse, mouth, mexican bandit, muchacho, siesta, sun, day, aroma, bound up, spoon, sitting on the ground Kunyomi: Onyomi: カツ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	hoarse 喝 画数11 491 Details Story Dictionary 喝 hoarse Heisig's When the muchacho on siesta looks up at you and opens his mouth to talk, his voice is so hoarse that you cannot understand him. Koohii #1 If you have a siesta with your mouthopen, you will wake up with a hoarse voice. Koohii #2 After taking a siesta, you find that your mouth is hoarse (after all you ARE thirsty remember). Primitives hoarse, mouth, mexican bandit, muchacho, siesta, sun, day, aroma, bound up, spoon, sitting on the ground Kunyomi: Onyomi: カツ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"kudzu Details Story Dictionary 葛 kudzu Heisig's Kudzu is a word taken over from Japanese to name the crawling vines that creep up and completely take over trees. Seeing it at its worst in the Georgia countryside makes it easy to understand why it has a reputation as the ""plague of the South."" From there it should not be hard to arrange the primitives, flowers and siesta into a memorable image. Koohii #1 Flower, siesta: The muchacho was not careful. He passed the warning signs and decided to hold a siesta in the kudzu field. The kudzu grew so fast, he was completely covered by it in a few hours and not able to escape. Now, the kudzu flowers mark his grave. Koohii #2 The muchacho takes a siesta under the flowers of the kudzu. Primitives kudzu, flowers, mexican bandit, muchacho, siesta, sun, day, aroma, bound up, spoon, sitting on the ground Kunyomi: つづら、くず Onyomi: カツ、カチ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 葛 (くず)"	"kudzu 葛 画数11 492 Details Story Dictionary 葛 kudzu Heisig's Kudzu is a word taken over from Japanese to name the crawling vines that creep up and completely take over trees. Seeing it at its worst in the Georgia countryside makes it easy to understand why it has a reputation as the ""plague of the South."" From there it should not be hard to arrange the primitives, flowers and siesta into a memorable image. Koohii #1 Flower, siesta: The muchacho was not careful. He passed the warning signs and decided to hold a siesta in the kudzu field. The kudzu grew so fast, he was completely covered by it in a few hours and not able to escape. Now, the kudzu flowers mark his grave. Koohii #2 The muchacho takes a siesta under the flowers of the kudzu. Primitives kudzu, flowers, mexican bandit, muchacho, siesta, sun, day, aroma, bound up, spoon, sitting on the ground Kunyomi: つづら、くず Onyomi: カツ、カチ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 葛 (くず)"
delicious Details Story Dictionary 旨 delicious Heisig's Something is so downright delicious that one spends the entire day with a spoon in hand gobbling it up. Koohii #1 Use a spoon to eat a DELICIOUS hot fudge sundae. Duh.. Koohii #2 It´s sooo delicious I could spoon it in all day. Primitives delicious, spoon, sitting on the ground, sun, day 趣旨(しゅし): object, meaning 要旨(ようし): gist, essentials, summary, fundamentals Kunyomi: むね、うま.い Onyomi: シ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 旨 (むね)	delicious 旨 画数6 493 Details Story Dictionary 旨 delicious Heisig's Something is so downright delicious that one spends the entire day with a spoon in hand gobbling it up. Koohii #1 Use a spoon to eat a DELICIOUS hot fudge sundae. Duh.. Koohii #2 It´s sooo delicious I could spoon it in all day. Primitives delicious, spoon, sitting on the ground, sun, day 趣旨(しゅし): object, meaning 要旨(ようし): gist, essentials, summary, fundamentals Kunyomi: むね、うま.い Onyomi: シ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 旨 (むね)
fat Details Story Dictionary 脂 fat Heisig's This kanji tells us that if you feed the flesh with too many delicious things, it soon picks up a thick layer of fat. Koohii #1 Every chef will tell you, fat is what make the meat taste delicious. Koohii #2 Fat is the most delicious part of the flesh. (Note this refers to physical fat, not the concept of obesity obese (#494)). Primitives fat, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, delicious, spoon, sun, day 脂肪(しぼう): fat, grease, blubber 脂(あぶら): fat, lard Kunyomi: あぶら Onyomi: シ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 脂 (あぶら)	fat 脂 画数10 494 Details Story Dictionary 脂 fat Heisig's This kanji tells us that if you feed the flesh with too many delicious things, it soon picks up a thick layer of fat. Koohii #1 Every chef will tell you, fat is what make the meat taste delicious. Koohii #2 Fat is the most delicious part of the flesh. (Note this refers to physical fat, not the concept of obesity obese (#494)). Primitives fat, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, delicious, spoon, sun, day 脂肪(しぼう): fat, grease, blubber 脂(あぶら): fat, lard Kunyomi: あぶら Onyomi: シ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 脂 (あぶら)
"visit a shrine Details Story Dictionary 詣 visit a shrine Heisig's Here you ""savor your words"" as something delicious when you describe your recent visit to a shrine or pilgrimage site. Koohii #1 To fat, effete Japanophiles (cheerily munching on 肉まん in the back of the tour bus) hearing the words of the tour guide ""Now we will visit a shrine"" elicits squeals of joy. ""Oooooh, how absolutely delicious!"". Koohii #2 You visit a shrine to say your wishes and offer delicious offering to the gods. Primitives visit a shrine, say, words, keitai, mouth, delicious, spoon, sitting on the ground, sun, day Kunyomi: けい.する、まい.る、いた.る、もう.でる Onyomi: ケイ、ゲイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 詣でる (もう.でる)"	"visit a shrine 詣 画数13 495 Details Story Dictionary 詣 visit a shrine Heisig's Here you ""savor your words"" as something delicious when you describe your recent visit to a shrine or pilgrimage site. Koohii #1 To fat, effete Japanophiles (cheerily munching on 肉まん in the back of the tour bus) hearing the words of the tour guide ""Now we will visit a shrine"" elicits squeals of joy. ""Oooooh, how absolutely delicious!"". Koohii #2 You visit a shrine to say your wishes and offer delicious offering to the gods. Primitives visit a shrine, say, words, keitai, mouth, delicious, spoon, sitting on the ground, sun, day Kunyomi: けい.する、まい.る、いた.る、もう.でる Onyomi: ケイ、ゲイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 詣でる (もう.でる)"
"I (one) Details Story Dictionary 壱 I (one) Heisig's The Roman numeral I - like that for II we met earlier in frame 379 - is only rarely used now. In the midst of all the samurai, we notice one in particular sitting on the ground with a crown on his head, indicating that he is ""number I"" in the current rankings. Koohii #1 I am ´the one´ , says the samurai with the crown around his waist and a spoon up his a***. Koohii #2 The samurai who has been crowned number one is so good he uses a spoon to fight with rather than a sword. Primitives 1 (one), samurai, crown, spoon, sitting on the ground Kunyomi: ひとつ Onyomi: イチ、イツ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"I (one) 壱 画数7 496 Details Story Dictionary 壱 I (one) Heisig's The Roman numeral I - like that for II we met earlier in frame 379 - is only rarely used now. In the midst of all the samurai, we notice one in particular sitting on the ground with a crown on his head, indicating that he is ""number I"" in the current rankings. Koohii #1 I am ´the one´ , says the samurai with the crown around his waist and a spoon up his a***. Koohii #2 The samurai who has been crowned number one is so good he uses a spoon to fight with rather than a sword. Primitives 1 (one), samurai, crown, spoon, sitting on the ground Kunyomi: ひとつ Onyomi: イチ、イツ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"every Details Story Dictionary 毎 every Heisig's ""Behind every successful person lies a woman...,"" who usually turns out to be one's mama! Koohii #1 Freud believed every man wants to lie down with his mother. Koohii #2 Who does every person want to lie down with? Yo´ MAMA! Primitives every, reclining, lying down, mother 毎(ごと): each respectively 毎度(まいど): each time, common service-sector greeting 毎朝(まいあさ): every morning 毎月(まいげつ): every month, each month, monthly 毎週(まいしゅう): every week 毎日(まいにち): every day 毎晩(まいばん): every night Kunyomi: ごと、-ごと.に Onyomi: マイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds:"	"every 毎 画数6 497 Details Story Dictionary 毎 every Heisig's ""Behind every successful person lies a woman...,"" who usually turns out to be one's mama! Koohii #1 Freud believed every man wants to lie down with his mother. Koohii #2 Who does every person want to lie down with? Yo´ MAMA! Primitives every, reclining, lying down, mother 毎(ごと): each respectively 毎度(まいど): each time, common service-sector greeting 毎朝(まいあさ): every morning 毎月(まいげつ): every month, each month, monthly 毎週(まいしゅう): every week 毎日(まいにち): every day 毎晩(まいばん): every night Kunyomi: ごと、-ごと.に Onyomi: マイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds:"
plum Details Story Dictionary 梅 plum Heisig's Behind every Jack Horner's pie maker, a tree full of plums. Koohii #1 Plums actually grow on every single tree. What, you didn´t know that? They do. Orange trees, apple trees, cantaloupe trees. Plums are simply mutant fruits that have been installed in the root software of every single tree. I hear that some plum-loving scientists are working on a way to hack every tree´s genetic code so that every tree will bear nothing _but_ plums. Koohii #2 EVERY Japanese person asks you if you like UMEBOSHI. No I say, I prefer to eat my PLUMS fresh from the TREE. Primitives plum, tree, wood, every, reclining, lying down, mother, breasts 梅干(うめぼし): dried plum 梅雨(つゆ): rainy season, rain during the rainy season 梅(うめ): plum, plum-tree, lowest (of a three-tier ranking system) Kunyomi: うめ Onyomi: バイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 梅 (うめ)	plum 梅 画数10 499 Details Story Dictionary 梅 plum Heisig's Behind every Jack Horner's pie maker, a tree full of plums. Koohii #1 Plums actually grow on every single tree. What, you didn´t know that? They do. Orange trees, apple trees, cantaloupe trees. Plums are simply mutant fruits that have been installed in the root software of every single tree. I hear that some plum-loving scientists are working on a way to hack every tree´s genetic code so that every tree will bear nothing _but_ plums. Koohii #2 EVERY Japanese person asks you if you like UMEBOSHI. No I say, I prefer to eat my PLUMS fresh from the TREE. Primitives plum, tree, wood, every, reclining, lying down, mother, breasts 梅干(うめぼし): dried plum 梅雨(つゆ): rainy season, rain during the rainy season 梅(うめ): plum, plum-tree, lowest (of a three-tier ranking system) Kunyomi: うめ Onyomi: バイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 梅 (うめ)
sea Details Story Dictionary 海 sea Heisig's Behind every drop of water, a sea from which it originated. Koohii #1 Every drop of water will eventually return to the sea. Koohii #2 As depicted in the classic SF film Fantastic Voyage, every drop of water is a sea, if you look close enough. Imagine peering through a microscope at a vast sea teeming with microbial life (and perhaps a minaturized submarine). Note: Take care not to confuse with ocean (#549). Primitives sea, water, water droplets, water pistol, every, reclining, lying down, mother, breasts 海路(うみじ): sea route 海運(かいうん): maritime, marine transportation 海峡(かいきょう): channel 海抜(かいばつ): height above sea level 海流(かいりゅう): ocean current 航海(こうかい): sail, voyage 領海(りょうかい): territorial waters 海外(かいがい): foreign, abroad, overseas 海水浴(かいすいよく): sea bathing, seawater bath 海洋(かいよう): ocean 海岸(かいがん): sea shore 海(うみ): sea, beach Kunyomi: うみ Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 海 (うみ)	sea 海 画数9 500 Details Story Dictionary 海 sea Heisig's Behind every drop of water, a sea from which it originated. Koohii #1 Every drop of water will eventually return to the sea. Koohii #2 As depicted in the classic SF film Fantastic Voyage, every drop of water is a sea, if you look close enough. Imagine peering through a microscope at a vast sea teeming with microbial life (and perhaps a minaturized submarine). Note: Take care not to confuse with ocean (#549). Primitives sea, water, water droplets, water pistol, every, reclining, lying down, mother, breasts 海路(うみじ): sea route 海運(かいうん): maritime, marine transportation 海峡(かいきょう): channel 海抜(かいばつ): height above sea level 海流(かいりゅう): ocean current 航海(こうかい): sail, voyage 領海(りょうかい): territorial waters 海外(かいがい): foreign, abroad, overseas 海水浴(かいすいよく): sea bathing, seawater bath 海洋(かいよう): ocean 海岸(かいがん): sea shore 海(うみ): sea, beach Kunyomi: うみ Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 海 (うみ)
beg Details Story Dictionary 乞 beg Heisig's See someone lying down in a public place with a hook in place of a hand, begging a morsel of rice or a few pence. Koohii #1 Lying down, Captain Hook is begging to be spared from the ticking crocodile. Koohii #2 Men beg lying down. Women beg as hookers. Primitives beg, reclining, lying down, fishhook Kunyomi: こ.う Onyomi: コツ、キツ、キ、キケ、コチ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 乞う (こ.う)	beg 乞 画数3 501 Details Story Dictionary 乞 beg Heisig's See someone lying down in a public place with a hook in place of a hand, begging a morsel of rice or a few pence. Koohii #1 Lying down, Captain Hook is begging to be spared from the ticking crocodile. Koohii #2 Men beg lying down. Women beg as hookers. Primitives beg, reclining, lying down, fishhook Kunyomi: こ.う Onyomi: コツ、キツ、キ、キケ、コチ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 乞う (こ.う)
drought Details Story Dictionary 乾 drought Heisig's In times of drought anything at all will do. Here we see the victims begging for just a little mist for relief. Koohii #1 During a drought, everything begs for even a mist for relief. Koohii #2 Beggar has to drink mist because there is no water in the drought. I get this one confused with thirst 451 but try to remember that there is no water element beacuse it is a drought. Primitives drought, mist, ten, needle, early, sun, day, beg, reclining, lying down, fishhook, ten2, needle2 乾(かん): heaven, emperor 乾(ほし): dried, cured 乾かす(かわかす): to dry 乾燥(かんそう): dry, arid, dehydrated, insipid 乾電池(かんでんち): dry cell, battery 乾杯(かんぱい): toast (drink) 乾く(かわく): get dry Kunyomi: かわ.く、かわ.かす、ほ.す、ひ.る、いぬい Onyomi: カン、ケン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 乾かす (かわ.かす), 乾く (かわ.く)	drought 乾 画数11 502 Details Story Dictionary 乾 drought Heisig's In times of drought anything at all will do. Here we see the victims begging for just a little mist for relief. Koohii #1 During a drought, everything begs for even a mist for relief. Koohii #2 Beggar has to drink mist because there is no water in the drought. I get this one confused with thirst 451 but try to remember that there is no water element beacuse it is a drought. Primitives drought, mist, ten, needle, early, sun, day, beg, reclining, lying down, fishhook, ten2, needle2 乾(かん): heaven, emperor 乾(ほし): dried, cured 乾かす(かわかす): to dry 乾燥(かんそう): dry, arid, dehydrated, insipid 乾電池(かんでんち): dry cell, battery 乾杯(かんぱい): toast (drink) 乾く(かわく): get dry Kunyomi: かわ.く、かわ.かす、ほ.す、ひ.る、いぬい Onyomi: カン、ケン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 乾かす (かわ.かす), 乾く (かわ.く)
abdomen Details Story Dictionary 腹 abdomen Heisig's If you double back (fold over) most animals - or people, for that matter - in the middle, the part of the body where the crease comes is the abdomen. Koohii #1 The only body part that doubles over. Koohii #2 Imagine getting punched in the abdomen, a fairly tender part of flesh, and instead of doubling forward, you double back. That would be pretty painful. Primitives abdomen, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, fold back, double back, reclining, lying down, sun, day, walking legs お腹(おなか): stomach 空腹(くうふく): hunger 山腹(さんぷく): hillside, mountainside 中腹(ちゅうっぱら): irritated, offended 腹立ち(はらだち): anger 腹(はら): abdomen, belly, stomach Kunyomi: はら Onyomi: フク Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 腹 (はら)	abdomen 腹 画数13 503 Details Story Dictionary 腹 abdomen Heisig's If you double back (fold over) most animals - or people, for that matter - in the middle, the part of the body where the crease comes is the abdomen. Koohii #1 The only body part that doubles over. Koohii #2 Imagine getting punched in the abdomen, a fairly tender part of flesh, and instead of doubling forward, you double back. That would be pretty painful. Primitives abdomen, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, fold back, double back, reclining, lying down, sun, day, walking legs お腹(おなか): stomach 空腹(くうふく): hunger 山腹(さんぷく): hillside, mountainside 中腹(ちゅうっぱら): irritated, offended 腹立ち(はらだち): anger 腹(はら): abdomen, belly, stomach Kunyomi: はら Onyomi: フク Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 腹 (はら)
"duplicate Details Story Dictionary 複 duplicate Heisig's In its original and etymologically transparent sense, to duplicate something means to double it back with a fold, like the fold of a cloak. Koohii #1 My girlfiend saw someone wearing the exact same (duplicate) outfit at a party, so she doubled back to change! Koohii #2 In Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Hermione uses a device called a ""time-turner"" to double back in time, but this creates duplicates. The smart thing to do would be to combine Hermione´s time-turner with Harry´s invisibility cloak. That way, one could double back in time without creating any visible duplicates. Primitives duplicate, cloak, fold back, double back, reclining, lying down, sun, day, walking legs 重複(じゅうふく): duplication, repetition, overlapping, redundancy, restoration 複合(ふくごう): composite, complex 複写(ふくしゃ): copy, duplicate 複数(ふくすう): plural, multiple 複雑(ふくざつ): complicated Kunyomi: Onyomi: フク Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"duplicate 複 画数14 504 Details Story Dictionary 複 duplicate Heisig's In its original and etymologically transparent sense, to duplicate something means to double it back with a fold, like the fold of a cloak. Koohii #1 My girlfiend saw someone wearing the exact same (duplicate) outfit at a party, so she doubled back to change! Koohii #2 In Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Hermione uses a device called a ""time-turner"" to double back in time, but this creates duplicates. The smart thing to do would be to combine Hermione´s time-turner with Harry´s invisibility cloak. That way, one could double back in time without creating any visible duplicates. Primitives duplicate, cloak, fold back, double back, reclining, lying down, sun, day, walking legs 重複(じゅうふく): duplication, repetition, overlapping, redundancy, restoration 複合(ふくごう): composite, complex 複写(ふくしゃ): copy, duplicate 複数(ふくすう): plural, multiple 複雑(ふくざつ): complicated Kunyomi: Onyomi: フク Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
lack Details Story Dictionary 欠 lack My Story To me, this kanji looks like a person with two arms and two legs, but who lacks a head. * As a primitive, it can mean either yawn or lack. Koohii #1 To me, this kanji looks like a person with two arms and two legs, but who lacks a head. Koohii #2 When your body lacks oxygen you yawn. Primitives lack, yawn 欠く(かく): to lack, to break, to crack, to chip 欠乏(けつぼう): want, shortage, famine 不可欠(ふかけつ): indispensable, essential 欠ける(かける): be lacking 欠陥(けっかん): defect, fault, deficiency 欠席(けっせき): absence, non-attendance 欠点(けってん): faults, defect, weakness Kunyomi: か.ける、か.く、あくび Onyomi: ケツ、ケン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 欠く (か.く), 欠ける (か.ける)	lack 欠 画数4 505 Details Story Dictionary 欠 lack My Story To me, this kanji looks like a person with two arms and two legs, but who lacks a head. * As a primitive, it can mean either yawn or lack. Koohii #1 To me, this kanji looks like a person with two arms and two legs, but who lacks a head. Koohii #2 When your body lacks oxygen you yawn. Primitives lack, yawn 欠く(かく): to lack, to break, to crack, to chip 欠乏(けつぼう): want, shortage, famine 不可欠(ふかけつ): indispensable, essential 欠ける(かける): be lacking 欠陥(けっかん): defect, fault, deficiency 欠席(けっせき): absence, non-attendance 欠点(けってん): faults, defect, weakness Kunyomi: か.ける、か.く、あくび Onyomi: ケツ、ケン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 欠く (か.く), 欠ける (か.ける)
blow Details Story Dictionary 吹 blow Heisig's To blow is really no more than a deliberate effort to make one's mouth lack all the air that is in it. Koohii #1 This is clearly a BLOWJOB, we can see the MOUTH and the LACK OF condom. (I am sorry for the image, but it sticks forever in your mind). Koohii #2 I keep confusing this with suck (#689). Consider someone blowing bubbles using their chewing gum because they´re lacking attention in class. Primitives blow, mouth, lack, yawn 吹奏(すいそう): playing wind instruments 吹雪(ふぶき): snow storm 吹く(ふく): blow (wind, etc.), emit Kunyomi: ふ.く Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 吹く (ふ.く)	blow 吹 画数7 506 Details Story Dictionary 吹 blow Heisig's To blow is really no more than a deliberate effort to make one's mouth lack all the air that is in it. Koohii #1 This is clearly a BLOWJOB, we can see the MOUTH and the LACK OF condom. (I am sorry for the image, but it sticks forever in your mind). Koohii #2 I keep confusing this with suck (#689). Consider someone blowing bubbles using their chewing gum because they´re lacking attention in class. Primitives blow, mouth, lack, yawn 吹奏(すいそう): playing wind instruments 吹雪(ふぶき): snow storm 吹く(ふく): blow (wind, etc.), emit Kunyomi: ふ.く Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 吹く (ふ.く)
cook Details Story Dictionary 炊 cook Heisig's Better to picture what happens when you do not pay attention to your work in the kitchen. Here we see a blazing fire and an inattentive, yawning cook who let things get out of control. Koohii #1 Japanese cooking sometimes lacks fire, e.g., sashimi. Koohii #2 This character shows the difference between a cook and a chef: a chef prepares food with passion and love; a cook only stands there with a pan over a fire, with no passion and just yawning. Primitives cook, fire, lack, yawn 炊事(すいじ): cooking, culinary arts 炊く(たく): boil, cook Kunyomi: た.く、-だ.き Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 炊く (た.く)	cook 炊 画数8 507 Details Story Dictionary 炊 cook Heisig's Better to picture what happens when you do not pay attention to your work in the kitchen. Here we see a blazing fire and an inattentive, yawning cook who let things get out of control. Koohii #1 Japanese cooking sometimes lacks fire, e.g., sashimi. Koohii #2 This character shows the difference between a cook and a chef: a chef prepares food with passion and love; a cook only stands there with a pan over a fire, with no passion and just yawning. Primitives cook, fire, lack, yawn 炊事(すいじ): cooking, culinary arts 炊く(たく): boil, cook Kunyomi: た.く、-だ.き Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 炊く (た.く)
song Details Story Dictionary 歌 song Heisig's The song in this kanji is being sung by a chorus line of can-can girls. Why it should be eliciting nothing but yawning from the audience, I leave to you to decide. Koohii #1 Can-Can-ers lack the ability to sing a song, so they just dance. Koohii #2 Can-can dancers are supposed to be big-bosomed girls who dance. Yet these so called can-can dancers are flat-chested and singing a song, so audience of men is yawning in boredom. Primitives song, cancan, can, mouth, street, nail, spike, lack, yawn, can2, mouth2, street2, nail2, spike2 短歌(たんか): tanka, 31-syllable Japanese poem 歌手(かしゅ): singer 歌謡(かよう): song, ballad 歌(うた): song, poetry 歌う(うたう): sing Kunyomi: うた、うた.う Onyomi: カ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 歌 (うた), 歌う (うた.う)	song 歌 画数14 508 Details Story Dictionary 歌 song Heisig's The song in this kanji is being sung by a chorus line of can-can girls. Why it should be eliciting nothing but yawning from the audience, I leave to you to decide. Koohii #1 Can-Can-ers lack the ability to sing a song, so they just dance. Koohii #2 Can-can dancers are supposed to be big-bosomed girls who dance. Yet these so called can-can dancers are flat-chested and singing a song, so audience of men is yawning in boredom. Primitives song, cancan, can, mouth, street, nail, spike, lack, yawn, can2, mouth2, street2, nail2, spike2 短歌(たんか): tanka, 31-syllable Japanese poem 歌手(かしゅ): singer 歌謡(かよう): song, ballad 歌(うた): song, poetry 歌う(うたう): sing Kunyomi: うた、うた.う Onyomi: カ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 歌 (うた), 歌う (うた.う)
soft Details Story Dictionary 軟 soft Heisig's If the cushions of one's car are too soft, one may begin yawning at the wheel. Koohii #1 Cars are rough steel things, lacking softness. Koohii #2 If your car has really soft seats, you may start yawning and eventually fall asleep at the wheel (imagine that this seat is a huge soft beanbag that nearly swallows the driver, and it will be easier to remember). Primitives soft, car, lack, yawn 柔軟(じゅうなん): flexible, lithe 軟らかい(やわらかい): soft, tender, limp Kunyomi: やわ.らか、やわ.らかい Onyomi: ナン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 軟らか (やわ.らか), 軟らかい (やわ.らかい)	soft 軟 画数11 509 Details Story Dictionary 軟 soft Heisig's If the cushions of one's car are too soft, one may begin yawning at the wheel. Koohii #1 Cars are rough steel things, lacking softness. Koohii #2 If your car has really soft seats, you may start yawning and eventually fall asleep at the wheel (imagine that this seat is a huge soft beanbag that nearly swallows the driver, and it will be easier to remember). Primitives soft, car, lack, yawn 柔軟(じゅうなん): flexible, lithe 軟らかい(やわらかい): soft, tender, limp Kunyomi: やわ.らか、やわ.らかい Onyomi: ナン Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 軟らか (やわ.らか), 軟らかい (やわ.らかい)
"next Details Story Dictionary 次 next Heisig's This key word connotes the ""next in line"" of a succession of people or things. Let there be a lack of ice on the hottest day of summer, and you stand impatiently in line waiting for the distributor to call out ""Next!"" * As a primitive, this character can either retain its key word meaning of next or the related meaning of second. Koohii #1 Is this store lacking ice? Let´s try the next one, then. Koohii #2 A rapper called ""Ice"" went for auditions but was told he lacked talent. Next... Primitives next, ice, lack, yawn 次(し): order, sequence, times, next, below 次いで(ついで): next, secondly, subsequently 取り次ぐ(とりつぐ): to act as an agent for, to announce (someone), to convey (a message) 次第(しだい): order, precedence, circumstances, immediate(ly), as soon as, dependent upon 次々(つぎつぎ): in succession, one by one 次ぐ(つぐ): rank next to, come after 目次(もくじ): table of contents 次(つぎ): next, stage station, stage, subsequent Kunyomi: つ.ぐ、つぎ Onyomi: ジ、シ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 次回 (じかい), 次元 (じげん), 目次 (もくじ), 次ぐ (つ.ぐ), 次 (つぎ)"	"next 次 画数6 510 Details Story Dictionary 次 next Heisig's This key word connotes the ""next in line"" of a succession of people or things. Let there be a lack of ice on the hottest day of summer, and you stand impatiently in line waiting for the distributor to call out ""Next!"" * As a primitive, this character can either retain its key word meaning of next or the related meaning of second. Koohii #1 Is this store lacking ice? Let´s try the next one, then. Koohii #2 A rapper called ""Ice"" went for auditions but was told he lacked talent. Next... Primitives next, ice, lack, yawn 次(し): order, sequence, times, next, below 次いで(ついで): next, secondly, subsequently 取り次ぐ(とりつぐ): to act as an agent for, to announce (someone), to convey (a message) 次第(しだい): order, precedence, circumstances, immediate(ly), as soon as, dependent upon 次々(つぎつぎ): in succession, one by one 次ぐ(つぐ): rank next to, come after 目次(もくじ): table of contents 次(つぎ): next, stage station, stage, subsequent Kunyomi: つ.ぐ、つぎ Onyomi: ジ、シ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 次回 (じかい), 次元 (じげん), 目次 (もくじ), 次ぐ (つ.ぐ), 次 (つぎ)"
"briar Details Story Dictionary 茨 briar Heisig's Earlier we made mention of the story of Briar Rose (or ""Sleeping Beauty,"" as we called her in frame 165) and drew attention to the briar hedge that grew up all about her castle. But in the second part of the story, these briars blossomed into flowers. Hence her name, Briar Rose. Be careful not to confuse this character with that for thorn (Frame 446). Koohii #1 To prevent animals from eating the beautiful flowers in your garden, the best thing to do is to plant briar bushes immediately next to them. Koohii #2 The briar patch may look unremarkable now before it blooms, but there will be flowers next, and it will be beautiful. Primitives briar, flowers, next, ice, lack, yawn Kunyomi: いばら、かや、くさぶき Onyomi: シ、ジ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 茨 (いばら)"	"briar 茨 画数9 511 Details Story Dictionary 茨 briar Heisig's Earlier we made mention of the story of Briar Rose (or ""Sleeping Beauty,"" as we called her in frame 165) and drew attention to the briar hedge that grew up all about her castle. But in the second part of the story, these briars blossomed into flowers. Hence her name, Briar Rose. Be careful not to confuse this character with that for thorn (Frame 446). Koohii #1 To prevent animals from eating the beautiful flowers in your garden, the best thing to do is to plant briar bushes immediately next to them. Koohii #2 The briar patch may look unremarkable now before it blooms, but there will be flowers next, and it will be beautiful. Primitives briar, flowers, next, ice, lack, yawn Kunyomi: いばら、かや、くさぶき Onyomi: シ、ジ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 茨 (いばら)"
assets Details Story Dictionary 資 assets Heisig's The first shells (money) you earn, you use to pay your debts. From then on, the next shells you accumulate become your assets. Koohii #1 Assets are the next best thing to money. Koohii #2 The first SHELLS you get you obviously spend, but the NEXT SHELLS are your ASSETS, you should bury them in a low safe place (placement!). Primitives assets, next, ice, lack, yawn, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 資格(しかく): qualifications, requirements, capabilities 資金(しきん): funds, capital 資産(しさん): property, fortune, means, assets 投資(とうし): investment 物資(ぶっし): goods, materials 融資(ゆうし): financing, loan 資源(しげん): resources 資本(しほん): funds, capital 資料(しりょう): materials, data Kunyomi: Onyomi: シ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	assets 資 画数13 512 Details Story Dictionary 資 assets Heisig's The first shells (money) you earn, you use to pay your debts. From then on, the next shells you accumulate become your assets. Koohii #1 Assets are the next best thing to money. Koohii #2 The first SHELLS you get you obviously spend, but the NEXT SHELLS are your ASSETS, you should bury them in a low safe place (placement!). Primitives assets, next, ice, lack, yawn, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 資格(しかく): qualifications, requirements, capabilities 資金(しきん): funds, capital 資産(しさん): property, fortune, means, assets 投資(とうし): investment 物資(ぶっし): goods, materials 融資(ゆうし): financing, loan 資源(しげん): resources 資本(しほん): funds, capital 資料(しりょう): materials, data Kunyomi: Onyomi: シ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
figure Details Story Dictionary 姿 figure Heisig's This kanji depicts a woman's figure as a sort of second self. Koohii #1 The next woman always has a better figure! Thinking like that, you´ll end up alone in an old folks home longing for the good old days! Koohii #2 Whenever I am next to a woman, I can´t help but take notice of her figure. Primitives figure, next, ice, lack, yawn, woman 姿勢(しせい): attitude, posture 姿(すがた): figure, shape, appearance Kunyomi: すがた Onyomi: シ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 姿 (すがた)	figure 姿 画数9 513 Details Story Dictionary 姿 figure Heisig's This kanji depicts a woman's figure as a sort of second self. Koohii #1 The next woman always has a better figure! Thinking like that, you´ll end up alone in an old folks home longing for the good old days! Koohii #2 Whenever I am next to a woman, I can´t help but take notice of her figure. Primitives figure, next, ice, lack, yawn, woman 姿勢(しせい): attitude, posture 姿(すがた): figure, shape, appearance Kunyomi: すがた Onyomi: シ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 姿 (すがた)
consult with Details Story Dictionary 諮 consult with Heisig's To seek the words of a second mouth is to consult with someone about something. Koohii #1 Having a word with the next mouth over, like a neighbor, is usually a good way to consult with somebody for cheap. Because, you know, actual consultants charge huge sums. Koohii #2 Consulting with is having words with the next mouth. Primitives consult with, say, words, keitai, mouth, next, ice, lack, yawn, mouth, mouth2 諮る(はかる): to consult with, to confer Kunyomi: はか.る Onyomi: シ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 諮る (はか.る)	consult with 諮 画数16 514 Details Story Dictionary 諮 consult with Heisig's To seek the words of a second mouth is to consult with someone about something. Koohii #1 Having a word with the next mouth over, like a neighbor, is usually a good way to consult with somebody for cheap. Because, you know, actual consultants charge huge sums. Koohii #2 Consulting with is having words with the next mouth. Primitives consult with, say, words, keitai, mouth, next, ice, lack, yawn, mouth, mouth2 諮る(はかる): to consult with, to confer Kunyomi: はか.る Onyomi: シ Lesson: 18 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 諮る (はか.る)
compensation Details Story Dictionary 賠 compensation Heisig's Picture a clam used as a muzzle to quiet the complaints of a fisherman's widow asking compensation for her husband lost at sea. Koohii #1 Compensation is money you give to someone to shut them up (i.e. muzzle their mouth). Koohii #2 Compensation is a kind of euphemism for hush money here. Money that muzzles. Primitives compensation, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, muzzle, vase, stand up, mouth 賠償(ばいしょう): reparations, indemnity, compensation Kunyomi: Onyomi: バイ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	compensation 賠 画数15 515 Details Story Dictionary 賠 compensation Heisig's Picture a clam used as a muzzle to quiet the complaints of a fisherman's widow asking compensation for her husband lost at sea. Koohii #1 Compensation is money you give to someone to shut them up (i.e. muzzle their mouth). Koohii #2 Compensation is a kind of euphemism for hush money here. Money that muzzles. Primitives compensation, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, muzzle, vase, stand up, mouth 賠償(ばいしょう): reparations, indemnity, compensation Kunyomi: Onyomi: バイ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
cultivate Details Story Dictionary 培 cultivate Heisig's The barrel hoops used by many Japanese farmers to stretch clear plastic over row of vegetables in a garden patch in the hopes of cultivating bigger and bigger vegetables is a way of muzzling the soil. Koohii #1 To cultivate the land is to tame it, control it. In short, you muzzle it´s unruly, chaotic nature. Koohii #2 The illegal immigrants cultivate the land but are socially and politically muzzled (wear muzzles while they work too). Primitives cultivate, soil, dirt, ground, muzzle, vase, stand up, mouth 栽培(さいばい): cultivation Kunyomi: つちか.う Onyomi: バイ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 培う (つちか.う)	cultivate 培 画数11 516 Details Story Dictionary 培 cultivate Heisig's The barrel hoops used by many Japanese farmers to stretch clear plastic over row of vegetables in a garden patch in the hopes of cultivating bigger and bigger vegetables is a way of muzzling the soil. Koohii #1 To cultivate the land is to tame it, control it. In short, you muzzle it´s unruly, chaotic nature. Koohii #2 The illegal immigrants cultivate the land but are socially and politically muzzled (wear muzzles while they work too). Primitives cultivate, soil, dirt, ground, muzzle, vase, stand up, mouth 栽培(さいばい): cultivation Kunyomi: つちか.う Onyomi: バイ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 培う (つちか.う)
"divide Details Story Dictionary 剖 divide Heisig's To ""divide and conquer"" you use a saber and a muzzle. Koohii #1 When you DIVIDE someone, there is sure to be a lot of screaming. That´s why you should use a MUZZLE before using the SABER. Koohii #2 Divide and conquer - first you cut them up (saber) , then you shut them up (muzzle). Primitives divide, muzzle, vase, stand up, mouth, sword, sabre, saber 解剖(かいぼう): dissection, autopsy Kunyomi: Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"divide 剖 画数10 517 Details Story Dictionary 剖 divide Heisig's To ""divide and conquer"" you use a saber and a muzzle. Koohii #1 When you DIVIDE someone, there is sure to be a lot of screaming. That´s why you should use a MUZZLE before using the SABER. Koohii #2 Divide and conquer - first you cut them up (saber) , then you shut them up (muzzle). Primitives divide, muzzle, vase, stand up, mouth, sword, sabre, saber 解剖(かいぼう): dissection, autopsy Kunyomi: Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
sound Details Story Dictionary 音 sound Heisig's The kanji for sound depicts something standing in the air over a tongue wagging in a mouth, much the same as a sound does for the briefest of moments before disappearing. * The primitive from this kanji also means simply a sound. Koohii #1 If you were standing on the sun, believe me, you´d be making sound. Koohii #2 The tongue wagging in a mouth produces a very high-pitched sound, breaking a nearby vase. Primitives sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, tongue wagging 音色(おんいろ): tone color, tone quality, timbre, synthesizer patch 音(ね): sound, note 本音(ほんね): real intention, motive 音(おん): sound, (music) note 五十音(ごじゅうおん): the Japanese syllabary 雑音(ざつおん): noise (jarring, grating) 騒音(そうおん): noise 物音(ものおと): sounds 録音(ろくおん): (audio) recording 音(おと): sound 発音(はつおん): pronunciation 音楽(おんがく): music, musical movement Kunyomi: おと、ね Onyomi: オン、イン、ノン Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 音楽 (おんがく), 発音 (はつおん), 騒音 (そうおん), 音 (おと), 音 (ね)	sound 音 画数9 518 Details Story Dictionary 音 sound Heisig's The kanji for sound depicts something standing in the air over a tongue wagging in a mouth, much the same as a sound does for the briefest of moments before disappearing. * The primitive from this kanji also means simply a sound. Koohii #1 If you were standing on the sun, believe me, you´d be making sound. Koohii #2 The tongue wagging in a mouth produces a very high-pitched sound, breaking a nearby vase. Primitives sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, tongue wagging 音色(おんいろ): tone color, tone quality, timbre, synthesizer patch 音(ね): sound, note 本音(ほんね): real intention, motive 音(おん): sound, (music) note 五十音(ごじゅうおん): the Japanese syllabary 雑音(ざつおん): noise (jarring, grating) 騒音(そうおん): noise 物音(ものおと): sounds 録音(ろくおん): (audio) recording 音(おと): sound 発音(はつおん): pronunciation 音楽(おんがく): music, musical movement Kunyomi: おと、ね Onyomi: オン、イン、ノン Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 音楽 (おんがく), 発音 (はつおん), 騒音 (そうおん), 音 (おと), 音 (ね)
"darkness Details Story Dictionary 暗 darkness Heisig's When ""darkness covered the earth"" at the beginning of time, there was neither sun nor sound. Koohii #1 Picture the sun exploding - there would be a gigantic noise and then...nothing. Everything would plunge into darkness. Koohii #2 In places of complete darkness, such as caves where the sun can´t reach, creatures such as bats have learned to navigate by sound rather than sight. The poor guys must have to fly around screaming ""Marco!"" and ""Polo!"" all the time. Primitives darkness, sun, day, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, sun2, day2 暗殺(あんさつ): assassination 暗算(あんざん): mental arithmetic 暗示(あんじ): hint, suggestion 暗記(あんき): memorization 薄暗い(うすぐらい): dim, gloomy 真っ暗(まっくら): total darkness, pitch dark, shortsightedness 暗い(くらい): dark, gloomy Kunyomi: くら.い、くら.む、くれ.る Onyomi: アン Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 暗い (くら.い)"	"darkness 暗 画数13 519 Details Story Dictionary 暗 darkness Heisig's When ""darkness covered the earth"" at the beginning of time, there was neither sun nor sound. Koohii #1 Picture the sun exploding - there would be a gigantic noise and then...nothing. Everything would plunge into darkness. Koohii #2 In places of complete darkness, such as caves where the sun can´t reach, creatures such as bats have learned to navigate by sound rather than sight. The poor guys must have to fly around screaming ""Marco!"" and ""Polo!"" all the time. Primitives darkness, sun, day, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, sun2, day2 暗殺(あんさつ): assassination 暗算(あんざん): mental arithmetic 暗示(あんじ): hint, suggestion 暗記(あんき): memorization 薄暗い(うすぐらい): dim, gloomy 真っ暗(まっくら): total darkness, pitch dark, shortsightedness 暗い(くらい): dark, gloomy Kunyomi: くら.い、くら.む、くれ.る Onyomi: アン Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 暗い (くら.い)"
"rhyme Details Story Dictionary 韻 rhyme Heisig's Poetry restricted to verses that rhyme often finds it has to abandon clarity of thought in order to make the rhyme of the words work. In this kanji's picture, one becomes a kind of ""sound-employee."" Koohii #1 What is a RHYME but some SOUND that EMPLOYEES say to get them through work. Koohii #2 Dr Seuss´s employee finally rebels against him: ""I´m tired of odd sounds all the time, I will not, cannot, speak in RHYME!"". Primitives rhyme, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, employee, mouth, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: Onyomi: イン Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"rhyme 韻 画数19 520 Details Story Dictionary 韻 rhyme Heisig's Poetry restricted to verses that rhyme often finds it has to abandon clarity of thought in order to make the rhyme of the words work. In this kanji's picture, one becomes a kind of ""sound-employee."" Koohii #1 What is a RHYME but some SOUND that EMPLOYEES say to get them through work. Koohii #2 Dr Seuss´s employee finally rebels against him: ""I´m tired of odd sounds all the time, I will not, cannot, speak in RHYME!"". Primitives rhyme, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, employee, mouth, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: Onyomi: イン Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
discriminating Details Story Dictionary 識 discriminating Heisig's A person of discriminating intellect can tell the difference between mere kazoo-buzzing and words spoken wisely. Koohii #1 Words are difficult to discriminate/discern from sounds in the middle of a fiesta. Koohii #2 I have discriminating taste. I´d rather listen to the words of a lecture than attend a kazoo concert. (Picture some snobby guy in a tweed jacket turning up his nose at entering a loud raucous kazoo recital). Primitives discriminating, say, words, keitai, mouth, kazoo, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, fiesta 認識(にんしき): recognition, cognizance 良識(りょうしき): good sense 意識(いしき): consciousness, senses 常識(じょうしき): common sense 知識(ちしき): knowledge, information 標識(ひょうしき): sign, mark Kunyomi: し.る、しる.す Onyomi: シキ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	discriminating 識 画数19 521 Details Story Dictionary 識 discriminating Heisig's A person of discriminating intellect can tell the difference between mere kazoo-buzzing and words spoken wisely. Koohii #1 Words are difficult to discriminate/discern from sounds in the middle of a fiesta. Koohii #2 I have discriminating taste. I´d rather listen to the words of a lecture than attend a kazoo concert. (Picture some snobby guy in a tweed jacket turning up his nose at entering a loud raucous kazoo recital). Primitives discriminating, say, words, keitai, mouth, kazoo, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, fiesta 認識(にんしき): recognition, cognizance 良識(りょうしき): good sense 意識(いしき): consciousness, senses 常識(じょうしき): common sense 知識(ちしき): knowledge, information 標識(ひょうしき): sign, mark Kunyomi: し.る、しる.す Onyomi: シキ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
mirror Details Story Dictionary 鏡 mirror Heisig's After lakes but before glass, polished metal was used for mirrors. These metal mirrors are recalled in this character for a mirror. Koohii #1 Mirror should suggest vanity. Imagine a spoiled girl who gets her parents to buy her a Golden mirror so she can stand in front of it all day vainly admiring her lovely human legs. Koohii #2 metal + stand up + sun + legs remember the legend of Amaterasu who retired in a cave. the other Gods brought a MIRROR made of polished METAL at the entrance of the cave. Amaterasu who was STANDING UP saw her image of the SUN and began to dance with her LEGS. Primitives mirror, metal, gold, mirror, vase, stand up, sun, day, human legs 眼鏡(がんきょう): spectacles, glasses 顕微鏡(けんびきょう): microscope 望遠鏡(ぼうえんきょう): telescope 鏡(かがみ): mirror 眼鏡(めがね): spectacles, glasses Kunyomi: かがみ Onyomi: キョウ、ケイ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鏡 (かがみ)	mirror 鏡 画数19 522 Details Story Dictionary 鏡 mirror Heisig's After lakes but before glass, polished metal was used for mirrors. These metal mirrors are recalled in this character for a mirror. Koohii #1 Mirror should suggest vanity. Imagine a spoiled girl who gets her parents to buy her a Golden mirror so she can stand in front of it all day vainly admiring her lovely human legs. Koohii #2 metal + stand up + sun + legs remember the legend of Amaterasu who retired in a cave. the other Gods brought a MIRROR made of polished METAL at the entrance of the cave. Amaterasu who was STANDING UP saw her image of the SUN and began to dance with her LEGS. Primitives mirror, metal, gold, mirror, vase, stand up, sun, day, human legs 眼鏡(がんきょう): spectacles, glasses 顕微鏡(けんびきょう): microscope 望遠鏡(ぼうえんきょう): telescope 鏡(かがみ): mirror 眼鏡(めがね): spectacles, glasses Kunyomi: かがみ Onyomi: キョウ、ケイ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鏡 (かがみ)
boundary (border) Details Story Dictionary 境 boundary (border) My Story [Jesus + Stand + see (Day + human legs)] If *Jesus* *stands* on the earth over there, he can *see* all the way to the border*. 竟 = tsui (final, end). So 境 = SOIL + END, or the end of the land. End of the land = its perimeter, the boundary! Koohii #1 In the dense cities of Japan even a small garden is a luxury. In this house, the owner has put mirrors on the boundary of his land so it feels much bigger. Koohii #2 This is an old trick to keep out migrants. You put a bunch of dirty mirrors on the boundary of your land and theirs. When they approach the boundary, what they see in the mirror is their own land and someone that looks like themselves, only dirtier, so they figure your country isn´t any better than their own and they head back home. Primitives boundary, soil, dirt, ground, mirror, vase, stand up, sun, day, human legs 境遇(きょうぐう): environment, circumstances 国境(くにざかい): national or state border 環境(かんきょう): environment, circumstance 境界(きょうかい): boundary 国境(こっきょう): national or state border 境(さかい): border, boundary, mental state Kunyomi: さかい Onyomi: キョウ、ケイ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 境界 (きょうかい), 境地 (きょうち), 逆境 (ぎゃっきょう), 境 (さかい)	boundary (border) 境 画数14 523 Details Story Dictionary 境 boundary (border) My Story [Jesus + Stand + see (Day + human legs)] If *Jesus* *stands* on the earth over there, he can *see* all the way to the border*. 竟 = tsui (final, end). So 境 = SOIL + END, or the end of the land. End of the land = its perimeter, the boundary! Koohii #1 In the dense cities of Japan even a small garden is a luxury. In this house, the owner has put mirrors on the boundary of his land so it feels much bigger. Koohii #2 This is an old trick to keep out migrants. You put a bunch of dirty mirrors on the boundary of your land and theirs. When they approach the boundary, what they see in the mirror is their own land and someone that looks like themselves, only dirtier, so they figure your country isn´t any better than their own and they head back home. Primitives boundary, soil, dirt, ground, mirror, vase, stand up, sun, day, human legs 境遇(きょうぐう): environment, circumstances 国境(くにざかい): national or state border 環境(かんきょう): environment, circumstance 境界(きょうかい): boundary 国境(こっきょう): national or state border 境(さかい): border, boundary, mental state Kunyomi: さかい Onyomi: キョウ、ケイ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 境界 (きょうかい), 境地 (きょうち), 逆境 (ぎゃっきょう), 境 (さかい)
deceased Details Story Dictionary 亡 deceased My Story Looks like a bathtub * In addition to deceased, the primitive meaning of to perish will also be used for this character. Koohii #1 The top hat hanging on a hook belonged to the now deceased Charlie Chaplin. Koohii #2 The recently DECEASED are said to hang their hats on a hook by the door to the afterlife. Primitives deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook 逃亡(とうぼう): escape 滅亡(めつぼう): downfall, ruin, collapse, destruction 死亡(しぼう): death, mortality 亡くす(なくす): lose something or someone, get rid of 亡くなる(なくなる): die Kunyomi: な.い、な.き-、ほろ.びる、ほろ.ぶ、ほろ.ぼす Onyomi: ボウ、モウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 亡父 (ぼうふ), 亡命 (ぼうめい), 存亡 (そんぼう), 亡い (な.い)	deceased 亡 画数3 524 Details Story Dictionary 亡 deceased My Story Looks like a bathtub * In addition to deceased, the primitive meaning of to perish will also be used for this character. Koohii #1 The top hat hanging on a hook belonged to the now deceased Charlie Chaplin. Koohii #2 The recently DECEASED are said to hang their hats on a hook by the door to the afterlife. Primitives deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook 逃亡(とうぼう): escape 滅亡(めつぼう): downfall, ruin, collapse, destruction 死亡(しぼう): death, mortality 亡くす(なくす): lose something or someone, get rid of 亡くなる(なくなる): die Kunyomi: な.い、な.き-、ほろ.びる、ほろ.ぶ、ほろ.ぼす Onyomi: ボウ、モウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 亡父 (ぼうふ), 亡命 (ぼうめい), 存亡 (そんぼう), 亡い (な.い)
blind Details Story Dictionary 盲 blind Heisig's If one's eyes perish before death, one remains blind for the rest of life. Koohii #1 Deceased eyes! Easy ;). Koohii #2 A person with deceased eyes is blind. Primitives blind, deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook, eye 盲点(もうてん): blind spot Kunyomi: めくら Onyomi: モウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	blind 盲 画数8 525 Details Story Dictionary 盲 blind Heisig's If one's eyes perish before death, one remains blind for the rest of life. Koohii #1 Deceased eyes! Easy ;). Koohii #2 A person with deceased eyes is blind. Primitives blind, deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook, eye 盲点(もうてん): blind spot Kunyomi: めくら Onyomi: モウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"delusion Details Story Dictionary 妄 delusion Heisig's The ""ideal woman"" one daydreams about is no more than a delusion. Hence, perish the thought of her. Koohii #1 I had a problem with remembering that ""deceased"" went over the ""woman"". So, here´s my story: The delusional woman was carrying her deceased husband on her back. Koohii #2 If you think you should perish for that woman, you have a major delusion. Primitives delusion, deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook, woman Kunyomi: みだ.りに Onyomi: モウ、ボウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 妄信 (もうしん), 妄想 (もうそう), 迷妄 (めいもう)"	"delusion 妄 画数6 526 Details Story Dictionary 妄 delusion Heisig's The ""ideal woman"" one daydreams about is no more than a delusion. Hence, perish the thought of her. Koohii #1 I had a problem with remembering that ""deceased"" went over the ""woman"". So, here´s my story: The delusional woman was carrying her deceased husband on her back. Koohii #2 If you think you should perish for that woman, you have a major delusion. Primitives delusion, deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook, woman Kunyomi: みだ.りに Onyomi: モウ、ボウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 妄信 (もうしん), 妄想 (もうそう), 迷妄 (めいもう)"
"laid waste Details Story Dictionary 荒 laid waste Heisig's The flowers that perish in the flood are taken here as symbols of an area that has been laid waste. Koohii #1 After Godzilla laid waste to the city, the survivors put some flowers on the bodies of the deceased and floated their bodies down the stream. Koohii #2 Laying waste is just a euphamism for flushing poop down the toilet. It smells nothing like flowers, more like deceased flowers, and it´s flushed down into a stream of sewage. Use ""waste"" to avoid destroy (#365) demolition (#400). Primitives laid waste, wreath, flowers, deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook, stream, flood 荒らす(あらす): to lay waste, to devastate, to damage, to invade, to break into 荒っぽい(あらっぽい): rough, rude 荒廃(こうはい): ruin 荒い(あらい): rough, rude, wild Kunyomi: あら.い、あら-、あ.れる、あ.らす、-あ.らし、すさ.む Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 荒らす (あ.らす), 荒れる (あ.れる), 荒い (あら.い)"	"laid waste 荒 画数9 527 Details Story Dictionary 荒 laid waste Heisig's The flowers that perish in the flood are taken here as symbols of an area that has been laid waste. Koohii #1 After Godzilla laid waste to the city, the survivors put some flowers on the bodies of the deceased and floated their bodies down the stream. Koohii #2 Laying waste is just a euphamism for flushing poop down the toilet. It smells nothing like flowers, more like deceased flowers, and it´s flushed down into a stream of sewage. Use ""waste"" to avoid destroy (#365) demolition (#400). Primitives laid waste, wreath, flowers, deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook, stream, flood 荒らす(あらす): to lay waste, to devastate, to damage, to invade, to break into 荒っぽい(あらっぽい): rough, rude 荒廃(こうはい): ruin 荒い(あらい): rough, rude, wild Kunyomi: あら.い、あら-、あ.れる、あ.らす、-あ.らし、すさ.む Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 荒らす (あ.らす), 荒れる (あ.れる), 荒い (あら.い)"
ambition Details Story Dictionary 望 ambition My Story [Dying + Moon/Organ + King] Think of the ambition of Macbeth and Lady Macbeth - making the old *King* *deceased* under the light of the *moon*. Koohii #1 You´re dead meat, buddy, my ambition is to be king. Koohii #2 The ambitions of kings often result in dead bodies. Primitives ambition, deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, king, jewel, ball 志望(しぼう): wish, desire, ambition 絶望(ぜつぼう): despair, hopelessness 待望(たいぼう): expectant waiting 展望(てんぼう): view, outlook, prospect 望ましい(のぞましい): desirable, hoped for 待ち望む(まちのぞむ): to look anxiously for, to wait eagerly for 有望(ゆうぼう): good prospects, full of hope, promising 要望(ようぼう): demand for, request 欲望(よくぼう): desire, appetite 希望(きぼう): hope, wish, aspiration 失望(しつぼう): disappointment, despair 望み(のぞみ): wish, desire, hope 望む(のぞむ): to desire, wish for, see, command (a view of) 望遠鏡(ぼうえんきょう): telescope Kunyomi: のぞ.む、もち Onyomi: ボウ、モウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 望郷 (ぼうきょう), 希望 (きぼう), 人望 (じんぼう), 望む (のぞ.む)	ambition 望 画数11 528 Details Story Dictionary 望 ambition My Story [Dying + Moon/Organ + King] Think of the ambition of Macbeth and Lady Macbeth - making the old *King* *deceased* under the light of the *moon*. Koohii #1 You´re dead meat, buddy, my ambition is to be king. Koohii #2 The ambitions of kings often result in dead bodies. Primitives ambition, deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, king, jewel, ball 志望(しぼう): wish, desire, ambition 絶望(ぜつぼう): despair, hopelessness 待望(たいぼう): expectant waiting 展望(てんぼう): view, outlook, prospect 望ましい(のぞましい): desirable, hoped for 待ち望む(まちのぞむ): to look anxiously for, to wait eagerly for 有望(ゆうぼう): good prospects, full of hope, promising 要望(ようぼう): demand for, request 欲望(よくぼう): desire, appetite 希望(きぼう): hope, wish, aspiration 失望(しつぼう): disappointment, despair 望み(のぞみ): wish, desire, hope 望む(のぞむ): to desire, wish for, see, command (a view of) 望遠鏡(ぼうえんきょう): telescope Kunyomi: のぞ.む、もち Onyomi: ボウ、モウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 望郷 (ぼうきょう), 希望 (きぼう), 人望 (じんぼう), 望む (のぞ.む)
direction Details Story Dictionary 方 direction Heisig's Spinning a dagger about on its hilt on the top of a top hat - waiting to see in which direction it points when it comes to rest - one leaves to fate where one is going next. Take care in writing this character. * As a primitive, this character will take the sense of a compass, the instrument used to determine direction. Koohii #1 Note: The primitives are top hat and bound up. Compare ten thousand (#64). Story: A rich man wearing a top hat and bound up from head to toe hobbles up to you and asks for directions to the nearest police station because he just escaped from his kidnappers. Koohii #2 I always keep my directions bound to the bottom of my top hat so I won´t lose them. Primitives direction, compass, direction 彼方此方(あちこち): here and there 彼方(あちら): there, yonder, that 彼方此方(あちらこちら): here and there 遠方(えんぽう): long way, distant place 大方(おおかた): perhaps, almost all, majority 方(かた): polite way of indicating person 地方(じかた): area, locality, district, region, the coast 其方(そちら): over there, the other 外方(そっぽ): look (or turn) the other way 立方(たちかた): dancing (geisha) 他方(たほう): another side, different direction, (on) the other hand 何方(どちら): which, who 平方(へいほう): square (e.g. metre), square 方(ほう): side 方策(ほうさく): plan, policy 方式(ほうしき): form, method, system 見方(みかた): viewpoint 目方(めかた): weight 明け方(あけがた): dawn 一方(いっぽう): one side, one way, one direction, one party, the other party, on the other hand, meanwhile, only, simple, in turn 方々(かたがた): persons, all people, this and that, here and there, everywhere, any way, all sides 正方形(せいほうけい): square 地方(ちほう): area, locality, district, region, the coast 長方形(ちょうほうけい): rectangle, oblong 方角(ほうがく): direction, way, compass point 方言(ほうげん): dialect 方向(ほうこう): direction, course, way 方針(ほうしん): objective, plan, policy 方程式(ほうていしき): equation 方法(ほうほう): method, process, manner, way, means, technique 方々(ほうぼう): persons, this and that, here and there, everywhere, any way, all sides, all people 方面(ほうめん): direction, district, field (of study) 味方(みかた): friend, ally, supporter 仕方(しかた): method, way 両方(りょうほう): both 夕方(ゆうがた): evening Kunyomi: かた、-かた、-がた Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 方 (かた)	direction 方 画数4 529 Details Story Dictionary 方 direction Heisig's Spinning a dagger about on its hilt on the top of a top hat - waiting to see in which direction it points when it comes to rest - one leaves to fate where one is going next. Take care in writing this character. * As a primitive, this character will take the sense of a compass, the instrument used to determine direction. Koohii #1 Note: The primitives are top hat and bound up. Compare ten thousand (#64). Story: A rich man wearing a top hat and bound up from head to toe hobbles up to you and asks for directions to the nearest police station because he just escaped from his kidnappers. Koohii #2 I always keep my directions bound to the bottom of my top hat so I won´t lose them. Primitives direction, compass, direction 彼方此方(あちこち): here and there 彼方(あちら): there, yonder, that 彼方此方(あちらこちら): here and there 遠方(えんぽう): long way, distant place 大方(おおかた): perhaps, almost all, majority 方(かた): polite way of indicating person 地方(じかた): area, locality, district, region, the coast 其方(そちら): over there, the other 外方(そっぽ): look (or turn) the other way 立方(たちかた): dancing (geisha) 他方(たほう): another side, different direction, (on) the other hand 何方(どちら): which, who 平方(へいほう): square (e.g. metre), square 方(ほう): side 方策(ほうさく): plan, policy 方式(ほうしき): form, method, system 見方(みかた): viewpoint 目方(めかた): weight 明け方(あけがた): dawn 一方(いっぽう): one side, one way, one direction, one party, the other party, on the other hand, meanwhile, only, simple, in turn 方々(かたがた): persons, all people, this and that, here and there, everywhere, any way, all sides 正方形(せいほうけい): square 地方(ちほう): area, locality, district, region, the coast 長方形(ちょうほうけい): rectangle, oblong 方角(ほうがく): direction, way, compass point 方言(ほうげん): dialect 方向(ほうこう): direction, course, way 方針(ほうしん): objective, plan, policy 方程式(ほうていしき): equation 方法(ほうほう): method, process, manner, way, means, technique 方々(ほうぼう): persons, this and that, here and there, everywhere, any way, all sides, all people 方面(ほうめん): direction, district, field (of study) 味方(みかた): friend, ally, supporter 仕方(しかた): method, way 両方(りょうほう): both 夕方(ゆうがた): evening Kunyomi: かた、-かた、-がた Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 方 (かた)
disturb Details Story Dictionary 妨 disturb Heisig's Imagine a compass that is disturbed every time a woman passes by, sending the needle spinning madly round and round. Koohii #1 Capt. Jack Sparrow´s compass gets disturbed every time a beautiful woman walks by him (just picture Keira Knightley in her sexy asian outfit as Elizabeth and the image will be fixed forever). Koohii #2 One way to Disturb a woman is to give her directions while she is in the middle of driving -- she just can´t take that kind of stress. Primitives disturb, compass, direction, woman 妨害(ぼうがい): disturbance, obstruction, hindrance, jamming, interference 妨げる(さまたげる): disturb, prevent Kunyomi: さまた.げる Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 妨げる (さまた.げる)	disturb 妨 画数7 530 Details Story Dictionary 妨 disturb Heisig's Imagine a compass that is disturbed every time a woman passes by, sending the needle spinning madly round and round. Koohii #1 Capt. Jack Sparrow´s compass gets disturbed every time a beautiful woman walks by him (just picture Keira Knightley in her sexy asian outfit as Elizabeth and the image will be fixed forever). Koohii #2 One way to Disturb a woman is to give her directions while she is in the middle of driving -- she just can´t take that kind of stress. Primitives disturb, compass, direction, woman 妨害(ぼうがい): disturbance, obstruction, hindrance, jamming, interference 妨げる(さまたげる): disturb, prevent Kunyomi: さまた.げる Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 妨げる (さまた.げる)
boy Details Story Dictionary 坊 boy Heisig's The character for a boy shows us a Boy Scout cleaning the dirt out of his compass - the more dirt, the better. Koohii #1 Little boys always head in the direction of mud and dirt. Koohii #2 Boys thoughts often head in dirty directions. Primitives boy, soil, dirt, ground, compass, direction 坊ちゃん(ぼっちゃん): son (of others) 寝坊(ねぼう): sleeping in late 坊さん(ぼうさん): Buddhist priest, monk 坊や(ぼうや): boy 赤ん坊(あかんぼう): baby 朝寝坊(あさねぼう): over sleep Kunyomi: Onyomi: ボウ、ボッ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 坊主 (ぼうず), 朝寝坊 (あさねぼう), 赤ん坊 (あかんぼう)	boy 坊 画数7 531 Details Story Dictionary 坊 boy Heisig's The character for a boy shows us a Boy Scout cleaning the dirt out of his compass - the more dirt, the better. Koohii #1 Little boys always head in the direction of mud and dirt. Koohii #2 Boys thoughts often head in dirty directions. Primitives boy, soil, dirt, ground, compass, direction 坊ちゃん(ぼっちゃん): son (of others) 寝坊(ねぼう): sleeping in late 坊さん(ぼうさん): Buddhist priest, monk 坊や(ぼうや): boy 赤ん坊(あかんぼう): baby 朝寝坊(あさねぼう): over sleep Kunyomi: Onyomi: ボウ、ボッ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 坊主 (ぼうず), 朝寝坊 (あさねぼう), 赤ん坊 (あかんぼう)
perfumed Details Story Dictionary 芳 perfumed Heisig's Here we see a special compass used to pick out those flowers most suited for making good perfumes. Koohii #1 She used a perfume so strong, that you can track her by following the direction of the smell of flowers. Koohii #2 People always seem to overdo it with their perfume. It seems that whenever I am at school, somebody walks by with their cheap flowery perfume. If I close my eyes, I can actually use that floweriness as a compass - it tells me which direction they´re in. Primitives perfume, flowers, compass, direction Kunyomi: かんば.しい Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 芳しい (かんば.しい)	perfumed 芳 画数7 532 Details Story Dictionary 芳 perfumed Heisig's Here we see a special compass used to pick out those flowers most suited for making good perfumes. Koohii #1 She used a perfume so strong, that you can track her by following the direction of the smell of flowers. Koohii #2 People always seem to overdo it with their perfume. It seems that whenever I am at school, somebody walks by with their cheap flowery perfume. If I close my eyes, I can actually use that floweriness as a compass - it tells me which direction they´re in. Primitives perfume, flowers, compass, direction Kunyomi: かんば.しい Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 芳しい (かんば.しい)
obese Details Story Dictionary 肪 obese Heisig's If you eat too much, you may need a compass to find your way around the obese mass of flesh that piles up in the midsection. Compare this with your stories for round (Frame 44) and fat (Frame 494), similar in meaning but distinct in imagery. Koohii #1 Flesh in all directions = obese. Koohii #2 Yo momma so obese, she changed the direction of the moon. Primitives obese, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, compass, direction 脂肪(しぼう): fat, grease, blubber Kunyomi: Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	obese 肪 画数8 533 Details Story Dictionary 肪 obese Heisig's If you eat too much, you may need a compass to find your way around the obese mass of flesh that piles up in the midsection. Compare this with your stories for round (Frame 44) and fat (Frame 494), similar in meaning but distinct in imagery. Koohii #1 Flesh in all directions = obese. Koohii #2 Yo momma so obese, she changed the direction of the moon. Primitives obese, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, compass, direction 脂肪(しぼう): fat, grease, blubber Kunyomi: Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
call on Details Story Dictionary 訪 call on Heisig's When making a courtesy call on a dignitary, one has to gauge one's words with great care. Hence the need for a compass. Koohii #1 When you call on someone, you point your words in their direction. Koohii #2 When calling on a girl, you´d better what what sweet words will turn her fancy in your direction. (Image: last century teenagers on a frilly couch in the sitting room, she with her back to him, and he fumbling for the right words to turn her around). Primitives call on, say, words, keitai, mouth, compass, direction 訪れる(おとずれる): to visit 訪問(ほうもん): call, visit 訪ねる(たずねる): visit Kunyomi: おとず.れる、たず.ねる、と.う Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 訪れる (おとず.れる), 訪ねる (たず.ねる)	call on 訪 画数11 534 Details Story Dictionary 訪 call on Heisig's When making a courtesy call on a dignitary, one has to gauge one's words with great care. Hence the need for a compass. Koohii #1 When you call on someone, you point your words in their direction. Koohii #2 When calling on a girl, you´d better what what sweet words will turn her fancy in your direction. (Image: last century teenagers on a frilly couch in the sitting room, she with her back to him, and he fumbling for the right words to turn her around). Primitives call on, say, words, keitai, mouth, compass, direction 訪れる(おとずれる): to visit 訪問(ほうもん): call, visit 訪ねる(たずねる): visit Kunyomi: おとず.れる、たず.ねる、と.う Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 訪れる (おとず.れる), 訪ねる (たず.ねる)
set free Details Story Dictionary 放 set free Heisig's The taskmaster sets an unruly servant free, giving him no more than a quick glance at the compass and a boot from behind. Koohii #1 Go in any direction away from your taskmaster when you are set free. Koohii #2 When slaves were set free from their masters, they set off in all directions… RTK2:　ホウ　放射　ほうしゃ(radiation)… Pure group: 倣979. Primitives set free, compass, direction, taskmaster 追放(ついほう): exile, banishment 放棄(ほうき): abandonment, renunciation, abdication (responsibility right) 放射(ほうしゃ): radiation, emission 放射能(ほうしゃのう): radioactivity 放出(ほうしゅつ): release, emit 放置(ほうち): leave as is, leave to chance, leave alone, neglect 放り込む(ほうりこむ): to throw into 放り出す(ほうりだす): to throw out, to fire, to expel, to give up, to abandon, to neglect 解放(かいほう): release, liberation, emancipation 開放(かいほう): open, throw open, liberalization 放す(はなす): separate, set free, turn loose 放れる(はなれる): leave, get free, cut oneself off 放る(ほうる): let go, abandon, leave undone, throw, toss, fling 放送(ほうそう): broadcasting Kunyomi: はな.す、-っぱな.し、はな.つ、はな.れる、こ.く、ほう.る Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 放す (はな.す), 放つ (はな.つ), 放れる (はな.れる)	set free 放 画数8 535 Details Story Dictionary 放 set free Heisig's The taskmaster sets an unruly servant free, giving him no more than a quick glance at the compass and a boot from behind. Koohii #1 Go in any direction away from your taskmaster when you are set free. Koohii #2 When slaves were set free from their masters, they set off in all directions… RTK2:　ホウ　放射　ほうしゃ(radiation)… Pure group: 倣979. Primitives set free, compass, direction, taskmaster 追放(ついほう): exile, banishment 放棄(ほうき): abandonment, renunciation, abdication (responsibility right) 放射(ほうしゃ): radiation, emission 放射能(ほうしゃのう): radioactivity 放出(ほうしゅつ): release, emit 放置(ほうち): leave as is, leave to chance, leave alone, neglect 放り込む(ほうりこむ): to throw into 放り出す(ほうりだす): to throw out, to fire, to expel, to give up, to abandon, to neglect 解放(かいほう): release, liberation, emancipation 開放(かいほう): open, throw open, liberalization 放す(はなす): separate, set free, turn loose 放れる(はなれる): leave, get free, cut oneself off 放る(ほうる): let go, abandon, leave undone, throw, toss, fling 放送(ほうそう): broadcasting Kunyomi: はな.す、-っぱな.し、はな.つ、はな.れる、こ.く、ほう.る Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 放す (はな.す), 放つ (はな.つ), 放れる (はな.れる)
violent Details Story Dictionary 激 violent Heisig's Some cosmic taskmaster hovering overhead whips up the waves to make them dash violently against the shore. In the white foam that covers the water we see a broken compass floating, all that remains of a shipwreck. Koohii #1 When the taskmaster found his favorite white compas damaged by water, he became the most violent taskmaster there ever was. Koohii #2 Overnight the slave got Violent and was Set Free. Overnight....Set Free. Primitives violent, water, water droplets, water pistol, white, dove, compass, direction, taskmaster 激励(げきれい): encouragement 感激(かんげき): deep emotion, impression, inspiration 急激(きゅうげき): sudden, precipitous, radical 激増(げきぞう): sudden increase 刺激(しげき): stimulus, impetus, incentive, excitement, irritation, encouragement, motivation 激しい(はげしい): violent, vehement, intense, furious, tempestuous Kunyomi: はげ.しい Onyomi: ゲキ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 激しい (はげ.しい)	violent 激 画数16 536 Details Story Dictionary 激 violent Heisig's Some cosmic taskmaster hovering overhead whips up the waves to make them dash violently against the shore. In the white foam that covers the water we see a broken compass floating, all that remains of a shipwreck. Koohii #1 When the taskmaster found his favorite white compas damaged by water, he became the most violent taskmaster there ever was. Koohii #2 Overnight the slave got Violent and was Set Free. Overnight....Set Free. Primitives violent, water, water droplets, water pistol, white, dove, compass, direction, taskmaster 激励(げきれい): encouragement 感激(かんげき): deep emotion, impression, inspiration 急激(きゅうげき): sudden, precipitous, radical 激増(げきぞう): sudden increase 刺激(しげき): stimulus, impetus, incentive, excitement, irritation, encouragement, motivation 激しい(はげしい): violent, vehement, intense, furious, tempestuous Kunyomi: はげ.しい Onyomi: ゲキ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 激しい (はげ.しい)
undress Details Story Dictionary 脱 undress My Story Under the *moon*, my *horny older bro* loves to undress himself Koohii #1 HORNY TEENAGERS love to UNDRESS FLESH. Koohii #2 Before you undress I should warn you -- the sight of flesh brings out the devil in me. Primitives undress, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, devil, horns, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs 脱出(だっしゅつ): escape 脱する(だっする): to escape from, to get out 脱退(だったい): secession 脱線(だっせん): derailment, digression 脱ぐ(ぬぐ): take off clothes Kunyomi: ぬ.ぐ、ぬ.げる Onyomi: ダツ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 脱ぐ (ぬ.ぐ), 脱げる (ぬ.げる)	undress 脱 画数11 537 Details Story Dictionary 脱 undress My Story Under the *moon*, my *horny older bro* loves to undress himself Koohii #1 HORNY TEENAGERS love to UNDRESS FLESH. Koohii #2 Before you undress I should warn you -- the sight of flesh brings out the devil in me. Primitives undress, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, devil, horns, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs 脱出(だっしゅつ): escape 脱する(だっする): to escape from, to get out 脱退(だったい): secession 脱線(だっせん): derailment, digression 脱ぐ(ぬぐ): take off clothes Kunyomi: ぬ.ぐ、ぬ.げる Onyomi: ダツ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 脱ぐ (ぬ.ぐ), 脱げる (ぬ.げる)
"explanation Details Story Dictionary 説 explanation My Story [Say {言} + Horny older bro] My *horny older bro* got caught watching porn by his Mom. He *says* ""I can #explain#!"" Koohii #1 The words of a horny teenager typically fall into one of two categories: either rumors or explanations. Koohii #2 The words of the devil incite rumours and false explanations. Primitives rumor, say, words, keitai, mouth, devil, horns, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs 概説(がいせつ): general statement, outline 学説(がくせつ): theory 説得(せっとく): persuasion 伝説(でんせつ): tradition, legend, folklore 説く(とく): to explain, to advocate, to preach, to persuade 演説(えんぜつ): speech, address 解説(かいせつ): explanation, commentary 社説(しゃせつ): editorial, leading article 説(せつ): theory 小説(しょうせつ): novel 説明(せつめい): explanation Kunyomi: と.く Onyomi: セツ、ゼイ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 説明 (せつめい), 小説 (しょうせつ), 演説 (えんぜつ), 説く (と.く)"	"explanation 説 画数14 538 Details Story Dictionary 説 explanation My Story [Say {言} + Horny older bro] My *horny older bro* got caught watching porn by his Mom. He *says* ""I can #explain#!"" Koohii #1 The words of a horny teenager typically fall into one of two categories: either rumors or explanations. Koohii #2 The words of the devil incite rumours and false explanations. Primitives rumor, say, words, keitai, mouth, devil, horns, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs 概説(がいせつ): general statement, outline 学説(がくせつ): theory 説得(せっとく): persuasion 伝説(でんせつ): tradition, legend, folklore 説く(とく): to explain, to advocate, to preach, to persuade 演説(えんぜつ): speech, address 解説(かいせつ): explanation, commentary 社説(しゃせつ): editorial, leading article 説(せつ): theory 小説(しょうせつ): novel 説明(せつめい): explanation Kunyomi: と.く Onyomi: セツ、ゼイ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 説明 (せつめい), 小説 (しょうせつ), 演説 (えんぜつ), 説く (と.く)"
pointed Details Story Dictionary 鋭 pointed Heisig's Metal that has been pointed (as an awl, a pick, a nail, or a knife) tends to serve the devil's purposes as well as civilization's: our tools are also our weapons. Koohii #1 Pointed is the metal devil´s pitchfork. Koohii #2 The Horny teenager who worked part time at a gold smelting plant always had uncontrollable errections that pointed out all the time, this is not a good thing to have when you work in a gold smelting plant, surely he will one day end up with a Goldmember! Primitives pointed, metal, gold, devil, horns, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs 鋭い(するどい): pointed, sharp Kunyomi: するど.い Onyomi: エイ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 鋭い (するど.い)	pointed 鋭 画数15 539 Details Story Dictionary 鋭 pointed Heisig's Metal that has been pointed (as an awl, a pick, a nail, or a knife) tends to serve the devil's purposes as well as civilization's: our tools are also our weapons. Koohii #1 Pointed is the metal devil´s pitchfork. Koohii #2 The Horny teenager who worked part time at a gold smelting plant always had uncontrollable errections that pointed out all the time, this is not a good thing to have when you work in a gold smelting plant, surely he will one day end up with a Goldmember! Primitives pointed, metal, gold, devil, horns, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs 鋭い(するどい): pointed, sharp Kunyomi: するど.い Onyomi: エイ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 鋭い (するど.い)
"formerly Details Story Dictionary 曽 formerly Heisig's This primitive (named for its associations with the kanji of the following frame) is composed of a pair of horns growing out of a brain with a tongue wagging in the mouth beneath. Think of ""former"" in connection with administrators or heads of state who have just left office but continue to make a nuisance of themselves by advertising their opinions on public policy. * The primitive meaning, increase, comes from the next frame. Always think of something multiplying wildly as you watch. Koohii #1 The Artist formerly Known as Prince has the horniest brain around, and I think you can imagine what his wagging tongue is doing... Koohii #2 Formerly, horned animals were used to plough the ricefield, and it took all day. Nowadays it´s done by machine. Primitives formerly, increase, horns, rice field, brains, sun, day Kunyomi: かつ、かつて、すなわち Onyomi: ソウ、ソ、ゾウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"formerly 曽 画数11 540 Details Story Dictionary 曽 formerly Heisig's This primitive (named for its associations with the kanji of the following frame) is composed of a pair of horns growing out of a brain with a tongue wagging in the mouth beneath. Think of ""former"" in connection with administrators or heads of state who have just left office but continue to make a nuisance of themselves by advertising their opinions on public policy. * The primitive meaning, increase, comes from the next frame. Always think of something multiplying wildly as you watch. Koohii #1 The Artist formerly Known as Prince has the horniest brain around, and I think you can imagine what his wagging tongue is doing... Koohii #2 Formerly, horned animals were used to plough the ricefield, and it took all day. Nowadays it´s done by machine. Primitives formerly, increase, horns, rice field, brains, sun, day Kunyomi: かつ、かつて、すなわち Onyomi: ソウ、ソ、ゾウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
increase Details Story Dictionary 増 increase Heisig's This kanji depicts an increase of soil, multiplying so fast that it literally buries everything in its path. Koohii #1 Prices always INCREASE for LAND that was FORMERLY cheaper. Koohii #2 Farmers work the land so they can INCREASE their formerly puny crop supply. Primitives increase, soil, dirt, ground, increase, formerly, horns, rice field, brains, sun, day 増強(ぞうきょう): augment, reinforce, increase 増進(ぞうしん): promoting, increase, advance 増やす(ふやす): to increase, to add to, to augment 増し(まし): extra, additional, less objectionable, better, preferable 激増(げきぞう): sudden increase 増加(ぞうか): increase, addition 増減(ぞうげん): increase and decrease, fluctuation 増大(ぞうだい): enlargement 増す(ます): increase, grow 増える(ふえる): increase Kunyomi: ま.す、ま.し、ふ.える、ふ.やす Onyomi: ゾウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 増える (ふ.える), 増やす (ふ.やす), 増す (ま.す)	increase 増 画数14 541 Details Story Dictionary 増 increase Heisig's This kanji depicts an increase of soil, multiplying so fast that it literally buries everything in its path. Koohii #1 Prices always INCREASE for LAND that was FORMERLY cheaper. Koohii #2 Farmers work the land so they can INCREASE their formerly puny crop supply. Primitives increase, soil, dirt, ground, increase, formerly, horns, rice field, brains, sun, day 増強(ぞうきょう): augment, reinforce, increase 増進(ぞうしん): promoting, increase, advance 増やす(ふやす): to increase, to add to, to augment 増し(まし): extra, additional, less objectionable, better, preferable 激増(げきぞう): sudden increase 増加(ぞうか): increase, addition 増減(ぞうげん): increase and decrease, fluctuation 増大(ぞうだい): enlargement 増す(ます): increase, grow 増える(ふえる): increase Kunyomi: ま.す、ま.し、ふ.える、ふ.やす Onyomi: ゾウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 増える (ふ.える), 増やす (ふ.やす), 増す (ま.す)
"presents Details Story Dictionary 贈 presents Heisig's The presents offered here are money that increases each time you give it away. Do not confuse with the temporal word ""present"" (Frame 275). Koohii #1 Presents represent money that was formerly yours. Koohii #2 Imagine if the number of presents you get increases with each birthday. So on your first birthday, you receive just one shell as a present, but the next year it increases to two shells as presents, and so on, increasing and increasing so by the time you´re elderly, the number of shells you´ll get as presents will have increased to an awful lot of presents. GOT IT YET? PRESENTS = SHELLS + INCREASE. Primitives presents, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, increase, formerly, horns, rice field, brains, sun, day 寄贈(きそう): donation, presentation 贈る(おくる): send, give to, award to, confer on 贈り物(おくりもの): gift Kunyomi: おく.る Onyomi: ゾウ、ソウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 贈与 (ぞうよ), 贈呈 (ぞうてい), 贈答 (ぞうとう), 贈る (おく.る)"	"presents 贈 画数18 542 Details Story Dictionary 贈 presents Heisig's The presents offered here are money that increases each time you give it away. Do not confuse with the temporal word ""present"" (Frame 275). Koohii #1 Presents represent money that was formerly yours. Koohii #2 Imagine if the number of presents you get increases with each birthday. So on your first birthday, you receive just one shell as a present, but the next year it increases to two shells as presents, and so on, increasing and increasing so by the time you´re elderly, the number of shells you´ll get as presents will have increased to an awful lot of presents. GOT IT YET? PRESENTS = SHELLS + INCREASE. Primitives presents, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, increase, formerly, horns, rice field, brains, sun, day 寄贈(きそう): donation, presentation 贈る(おくる): send, give to, award to, confer on 贈り物(おくりもの): gift Kunyomi: おく.る Onyomi: ゾウ、ソウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 贈与 (ぞうよ), 贈呈 (ぞうてい), 贈答 (ぞうとう), 贈る (おく.る)"
"east Details Story Dictionary 東 east Heisig's As a ""Western"" language, English identifies the east with the rising sun. In more fanciful terms, we see the sun piercing through a tree as it rises in the east. * Both the direction east and the part of the world called ""the East"" are primitive meanings of this character. Koohii #1 Traditionally seen as a pictograph of the sun rising behind a tree. Koohii #2 The sun pierces through the trees as it rises in the east…　　　　　　RTK2:　トウ　東北　とうほく (the northeast)　東京　とうきょう(Tokyo)… MIXED GROUP　凍506　(ﾁﾝ):陳1301　(ﾚﾝ): 練1343　錬2030. Primitives east, sun, day, tree, wood 東(あずま): east, Eastern Japan 関東(かんとう): Kantou (eastern half of Japan, including Tokyo) 東西(とうざい): East and West, Orient and Occident, whole country, Your attention, please! 東洋(とうよう): Orient 東(ひがし): east Kunyomi: ひがし Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 東 (ひがし)"	"east 東 画数8 543 Details Story Dictionary 東 east Heisig's As a ""Western"" language, English identifies the east with the rising sun. In more fanciful terms, we see the sun piercing through a tree as it rises in the east. * Both the direction east and the part of the world called ""the East"" are primitive meanings of this character. Koohii #1 Traditionally seen as a pictograph of the sun rising behind a tree. Koohii #2 The sun pierces through the trees as it rises in the east…　　　　　　RTK2:　トウ　東北　とうほく (the northeast)　東京　とうきょう(Tokyo)… MIXED GROUP　凍506　(ﾁﾝ):陳1301　(ﾚﾝ): 練1343　錬2030. Primitives east, sun, day, tree, wood 東(あずま): east, Eastern Japan 関東(かんとう): Kantou (eastern half of Japan, including Tokyo) 東西(とうざい): East and West, Orient and Occident, whole country, Your attention, please! 東洋(とうよう): Orient 東(ひがし): east Kunyomi: ひがし Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 東 (ひがし)"
ridgepole Details Story Dictionary 棟 ridgepole Heisig's If the piece of wood in the roof known as the ridgepole points east, the sunrise will be visible from the front door. Koohii #1 Feng Shui states that the ridgepole of a house should be made of wood and face east. Koohii #2 Ok just a note to the ´ridgepole facing east story´ im making up a story to JUSTIFY why that is the case. Assuming that 99% of you guys use the age old story of a ´sun rising through a tree tells you were the east is´, back in those days when people used ridgepoles they wanted to align their houses in such a way that they face the rising sun, so they wake up with a bright day, and wake up early with the sun seeping through in a perpendicular manner( as the ridge pole faces the sun in the morning). Primitives ridgepole, tree, wood, east, tree, wood, sun, day, tree2, wood2 棟(とう): place, section, building Kunyomi: むね、むな- Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 棟 (むね)	ridgepole 棟 画数12 544 Details Story Dictionary 棟 ridgepole Heisig's If the piece of wood in the roof known as the ridgepole points east, the sunrise will be visible from the front door. Koohii #1 Feng Shui states that the ridgepole of a house should be made of wood and face east. Koohii #2 Ok just a note to the ´ridgepole facing east story´ im making up a story to JUSTIFY why that is the case. Assuming that 99% of you guys use the age old story of a ´sun rising through a tree tells you were the east is´, back in those days when people used ridgepoles they wanted to align their houses in such a way that they face the rising sun, so they wake up with a bright day, and wake up early with the sun seeping through in a perpendicular manner( as the ridge pole faces the sun in the morning). Primitives ridgepole, tree, wood, east, tree, wood, sun, day, tree2, wood2 棟(とう): place, section, building Kunyomi: むね、むな- Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 棟 (むね)
"frozen Details Story Dictionary 凍 frozen Heisig's The whole secret to breaking the ice with the East is to peek behind those mysteriously ""frozen smiles."" Koohii #1 Eastern Siberia is often frozen by ice. According to wikipedia, Yakutia (in Eastern Siberia) holds the record as the coldest town on Earth. Check it out yourself...it made it stick for me! Koohii #2 The ice will stay frozen until the sun is visible through the trees. Primitives frozen, ice, east, tree, wood, sun, day 凍る(こおる): freeze, be frozen over, congeal 凍える(こごえる): freeze, be chilled, be frozen 冷凍(れいとう): freezing, cold storage, refrigeration Kunyomi: こお.る、こご.える、こご.る、い.てる、し.みる Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 凍る (こお.る), 凍える (こご.える)"	"frozen 凍 画数10 545 Details Story Dictionary 凍 frozen Heisig's The whole secret to breaking the ice with the East is to peek behind those mysteriously ""frozen smiles."" Koohii #1 Eastern Siberia is often frozen by ice. According to wikipedia, Yakutia (in Eastern Siberia) holds the record as the coldest town on Earth. Check it out yourself...it made it stick for me! Koohii #2 The ice will stay frozen until the sun is visible through the trees. Primitives frozen, ice, east, tree, wood, sun, day 凍る(こおる): freeze, be frozen over, congeal 凍える(こごえる): freeze, be chilled, be frozen 冷凍(れいとう): freezing, cold storage, refrigeration Kunyomi: こお.る、こご.える、こご.る、い.てる、し.みる Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 凍る (こお.る), 凍える (こご.える)"
pregnancy Details Story Dictionary 妊 pregnancy Heisig's A woman who is in her pregnancy is a bit like a porter, bearing her new companion wherever she goes. Koohii #1 A pregnant woman is a porter of her child. Koohii #2 The gentleman gave the woman a bit of sperm...BAM PREGNANCY! Primitives pregnancy, woman, porter, drop, samurai 妊娠(にんしん): conception, pregnancy Kunyomi: はら.む、みごも.る Onyomi: ニン、ジン Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	pregnancy 妊 画数7 546 Details Story Dictionary 妊 pregnancy Heisig's A woman who is in her pregnancy is a bit like a porter, bearing her new companion wherever she goes. Koohii #1 A pregnant woman is a porter of her child. Koohii #2 The gentleman gave the woman a bit of sperm...BAM PREGNANCY! Primitives pregnancy, woman, porter, drop, samurai 妊娠(にんしん): conception, pregnancy Kunyomi: はら.む、みごも.る Onyomi: ニン、ジン Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
courts Details Story Dictionary 廷 courts Heisig's Those who rule the courts, the porters of justice and order, are often found to stretch the law to suit their own purposes. Recall the kanji for prolong from frame 419 and keep it distinct. Koohii #1 A porter has run away from his master. His punishment is to be stretched out on the rack. So say the courts in this barbaric time. Koohii #2 The gentleman stretched the truth a bit in court. Primitives courts, porter, drop, samurai, stretch 法廷(ほうてい): courtroom Kunyomi: Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	courts 廷 画数7 547 Details Story Dictionary 廷 courts Heisig's Those who rule the courts, the porters of justice and order, are often found to stretch the law to suit their own purposes. Recall the kanji for prolong from frame 419 and keep it distinct. Koohii #1 A porter has run away from his master. His punishment is to be stretched out on the rack. So say the courts in this barbaric time. Koohii #2 The gentleman stretched the truth a bit in court. Primitives courts, porter, drop, samurai, stretch 法廷(ほうてい): courtroom Kunyomi: Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 19 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
dye Details Story Dictionary 染 dye My Story [Water + 9 + tree] SEND the artists to dye *9* *trees* with a *water*-based dye! To make this dye, I used *water* and the barks of *nine* different *trees*. Koohii #1 To make this dye, I used water and the barks of nine different trees. Koohii #2 The baseball team hangs their freshly dyed dripping jerseys at the top of a tree to dry. Primitives dye, water, water droplets, water pistol, nine, baseball, tree, wood 感染(かんせん): infection, contagion 染みる(しみる): to pierce, to permeate 染まる(そまる): to dye 染める(そめる): to dye, to colour 汚染(おせん): pollution, contamination 伝染(でんせん): contagion Kunyomi: そ.める、-ぞ.め、-ぞめ、そ.まる、し.みる、-じ.みる、し.み、-し.める Onyomi: セン Lesson: 20 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 染み (し.み), 染みる (し.みる), 染まる (そ.まる), 染める (そ.める)	dye 染 画数9 548 Details Story Dictionary 染 dye My Story [Water + 9 + tree] SEND the artists to dye *9* *trees* with a *water*-based dye! To make this dye, I used *water* and the barks of *nine* different *trees*. Koohii #1 To make this dye, I used water and the barks of nine different trees. Koohii #2 The baseball team hangs their freshly dyed dripping jerseys at the top of a tree to dry. Primitives dye, water, water droplets, water pistol, nine, baseball, tree, wood 感染(かんせん): infection, contagion 染みる(しみる): to pierce, to permeate 染まる(そまる): to dye 染める(そめる): to dye, to colour 汚染(おせん): pollution, contamination 伝染(でんせん): contagion Kunyomi: そ.める、-ぞ.め、-ぞめ、そ.まる、し.みる、-じ.みる、し.み、-し.める Onyomi: セン Lesson: 20 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 染み (し.み), 染みる (し.みる), 染まる (そ.まる), 染める (そ.める)
"burn Details Story Dictionary 燃 burn Heisig's Hearth . . . sort of thing. Beware of letting the simple reading off of the primitive elements do your work for you. Unless you make a vivid image of something burning and relate it just as vividly to those primitive meanings, you can count on forgetting this character very quickly. Koohii #1 Any sort of thing can burn in the fire. Koohii #2 Somebody from PETA is really angry that they sell dog meat in China, so they´ve gone to burn down the whole cart (my mnemonic for ""sort of thing"" was seeing strips of dog flesh roasting, and saying ""well, that´s just the sort of thing they do here in China). Primitives burn, fire, sort of thing, moon, crescent moon, month, flesh, part of the body, chihuahua, dog, large, drop, oven-fire, barbecue, fire2 燃焼(ねんしょう): burning, combustion 燃料(ねんりょう): fuel 燃える(もえる): to burn 燃やす(もやす): to burn Kunyomi: も.える、も.やす、も.す Onyomi: ネン Lesson: 20 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 燃える (も.える), 燃す (も.す), 燃やす (も.やす)"	"burn 燃 画数16 549 Details Story Dictionary 燃 burn Heisig's Hearth . . . sort of thing. Beware of letting the simple reading off of the primitive elements do your work for you. Unless you make a vivid image of something burning and relate it just as vividly to those primitive meanings, you can count on forgetting this character very quickly. Koohii #1 Any sort of thing can burn in the fire. Koohii #2 Somebody from PETA is really angry that they sell dog meat in China, so they´ve gone to burn down the whole cart (my mnemonic for ""sort of thing"" was seeing strips of dog flesh roasting, and saying ""well, that´s just the sort of thing they do here in China). Primitives burn, fire, sort of thing, moon, crescent moon, month, flesh, part of the body, chihuahua, dog, large, drop, oven-fire, barbecue, fire2 燃焼(ねんしょう): burning, combustion 燃料(ねんりょう): fuel 燃える(もえる): to burn 燃やす(もやす): to burn Kunyomi: も.える、も.やす、も.す Onyomi: ネン Lesson: 20 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 燃える (も.える), 燃す (も.す), 燃やす (も.やす)"
V.I.P. Details Story Dictionary 賓 V.I.P. Heisig's The V.I.P. indicated here is an important guest making a visit. The elements are: house . . . ceiling . . . few . . . shells. Koohii #1 This house is reserved to V.I.P. only. If you are not one of the few with enough money to call you that way, keep out! Koohii #2 The V.I.P. visits your house, but your ceiling is too low for his inflated head, which he bumps and hurts. You have to give him your few shells as compensation. Primitives V.I.P., house, one, ceiling, few, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヒン Lesson: 20 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	V.I.P. 賓 画数15 550 Details Story Dictionary 賓 V.I.P. Heisig's The V.I.P. indicated here is an important guest making a visit. The elements are: house . . . ceiling . . . few . . . shells. Koohii #1 This house is reserved to V.I.P. only. If you are not one of the few with enough money to call you that way, keep out! Koohii #2 The V.I.P. visits your house, but your ceiling is too low for his inflated head, which he bumps and hurts. You have to give him your few shells as compensation. Primitives V.I.P., house, one, ceiling, few, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヒン Lesson: 20 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
year-end Details Story Dictionary 歳 year-end Heisig's Stop . . . march . . . little. Be sure not to forget that final dot in the element for march. Koohii #1 Santa had to put his foot down to stop a march of little guys, namely elves. They were protesting the harsh treatment they get every year-end when Santa asks them to step up toy production for the holiday season. Koohii #2 At the year-end, everything seems to come to a stop. However, there´s still enough time for a little march to celebrate. Primitives year end, stop, footprint, one, little, small, march 歳(さい): -years-old 万歳(ばんざい): strolling comic dancer 二十歳(はたち): 20 years old, 20th year Kunyomi: とし、とせ、よわい Onyomi: サイ、セイ Lesson: 20 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 歳末 (さいまつ), 歳月 (さいげつ), 二十歳 (はたち)	year-end 歳 画数13 551 Details Story Dictionary 歳 year-end Heisig's Stop . . . march . . . little. Be sure not to forget that final dot in the element for march. Koohii #1 Santa had to put his foot down to stop a march of little guys, namely elves. They were protesting the harsh treatment they get every year-end when Santa asks them to step up toy production for the holiday season. Koohii #2 At the year-end, everything seems to come to a stop. However, there´s still enough time for a little march to celebrate. Primitives year end, stop, footprint, one, little, small, march 歳(さい): -years-old 万歳(ばんざい): strolling comic dancer 二十歳(はたち): 20 years old, 20th year Kunyomi: とし、とせ、よわい Onyomi: サイ、セイ Lesson: 20 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 歳末 (さいまつ), 歳月 (さいげつ), 二十歳 (はたち)
prefecture Details Story Dictionary 県 prefecture Heisig's Above, an eye and a fishhook, and below the primitive for little. Although apparently the simplest of these first six kanji, when you begin to work on its plot and story you will soon find out that the number of strokes and visual complexity of a kanji does not make it easier or harder to remember. It is the primitives you have to work that are the critical factor, as in this case where the meaning of the key word is so seemingly distant from the elements. Remember, you can always break larger elements down (eye of a needle into eye and fishhook) if you think it helps. Koohii #1 In Japanese this is KEN, as in Barbie´s boyfriend. He has lovely blue eyes, a girlfriend who is as thin as a straightened out fish hook. But, down where it counts, he has very little to show... Koohii #2 After sticking a fishhook in your eye, the yakuza boss probably has little more to do to convince you to move to a different prefecture. Primitives prefecture, eye, fishhook, small, little 県(けん): prefecture 県庁(けんちょう): prefectural office Kunyomi: か.ける Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 20 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	prefecture 県 画数9 552 Details Story Dictionary 県 prefecture Heisig's Above, an eye and a fishhook, and below the primitive for little. Although apparently the simplest of these first six kanji, when you begin to work on its plot and story you will soon find out that the number of strokes and visual complexity of a kanji does not make it easier or harder to remember. It is the primitives you have to work that are the critical factor, as in this case where the meaning of the key word is so seemingly distant from the elements. Remember, you can always break larger elements down (eye of a needle into eye and fishhook) if you think it helps. Koohii #1 In Japanese this is KEN, as in Barbie´s boyfriend. He has lovely blue eyes, a girlfriend who is as thin as a straightened out fish hook. But, down where it counts, he has very little to show... Koohii #2 After sticking a fishhook in your eye, the yakuza boss probably has little more to do to convince you to move to a different prefecture. Primitives prefecture, eye, fishhook, small, little 県(けん): prefecture 県庁(けんちょう): prefectural office Kunyomi: か.ける Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 20 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
horse chestnut Details Story Dictionary 栃 horse chestnut Heisig's A tree . . . cliff . . . ten thousand. Koohii #1 There are a bunch of HORSE CHESTNUT TREES on top of this CLIFF above the beach. Chestnuts keep rolling off the cliff and falling on people´s heads. So far TEN THOUSAND people have been killed by falling chestnuts, and the Japanese government still ain´t did shit about it. Koohii #2 There is a horse chestnut tree that has grown by a cliff for so long, it has deposited 10,000 horse chesnuts that lie at the bottom. Don´t worry over this one too much, you´ll spend so much time trying to figure out the right story for it, you probably won´t forget it. Primitives horse chestnut, tree, wood, Wimbledon, cliff, ten thousand, one, bound up Kunyomi: とち Onyomi: Lesson: 20 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 栃 (とち)	horse chestnut 栃 画数9 553 Details Story Dictionary 栃 horse chestnut Heisig's A tree . . . cliff . . . ten thousand. Koohii #1 There are a bunch of HORSE CHESTNUT TREES on top of this CLIFF above the beach. Chestnuts keep rolling off the cliff and falling on people´s heads. So far TEN THOUSAND people have been killed by falling chestnuts, and the Japanese government still ain´t did shit about it. Koohii #2 There is a horse chestnut tree that has grown by a cliff for so long, it has deposited 10,000 horse chesnuts that lie at the bottom. Don´t worry over this one too much, you´ll spend so much time trying to figure out the right story for it, you probably won´t forget it. Primitives horse chestnut, tree, wood, Wimbledon, cliff, ten thousand, one, bound up Kunyomi: とち Onyomi: Lesson: 20 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 栃 (とち)
"ground Details Story Dictionary 地 ground Heisig's Soil and a scorpion (an ""earth animal""). This is, of course, the full character from which the primitive for ground derives. Koohii #1 Picture the ground as an extent of soil where scorpions are buried like land mines. Imagine a sign post saying ´no trespassing, scorpion mines´ if that helps, and how it is dangerous to walk there. Koohii #2 The soil is littered with scorpions everywhere and no ones dares put their foot on the ground. Primitives ground, soil, dirt, ground, scorpion 天地(あめつち): heaven and earth, the universe, nature, top and bottom, realm, sphere, world 意地(いじ): disposition, spirit, willpower, obstinacy, backbone, appetite 位地(いち): place, situation, position, location 見地(けんち): point of view 現地(げんち): actual place, local 心地(ここち): feeling, sensation, mood 地方(じかた): area, locality, district, region, the coast 地形(じぎょう): terrain, geographical features, topography 地獄(じごく): hell 下地(したじ): groundwork, foundation, inclination, aptitude, elementary knowledge of, grounding in, prearrangement, spadework, signs, symptoms, first coat of plastering, soy 地主(じぬし): landlord 地元(じもと): local 植民地(しょくみんち): colony 農地(のうち): agricultural land 墓地(はかち): cemetery, graveyard 余地(よち): place, room, margin, scope 領地(りょうち): territory, dominion 意地悪(いじわる): malicious, ill-tempered, unkind 各地(かくち): every place, various places 生地(きじ): cloth, material, texture, one´s true character, unglazed pottery 基地(きち): base 耕地(こうち): arable land 産地(さんち): producing area 敷地(しきち): site 地盤(じばん): the ground 地味(じみ): plain, simple 団地(だんち): multi-unit apartments 地(ち): earth 地位(ちい): (social) position, status 地域(ちいき): area, region 地下(ちか): basement, underground 地下水(ちかすい): underground water 地球(ちきゅう): the earth 地区(ちく): district, section, sector 地質(ちしつ): geological features 地帯(ちたい): area, zone 地点(ちてん): site, point on a map 地平線(ちへいせん): horizon 地方(ちほう): area, locality, district, region, the coast 地名(ちめい): place name 土地(とち): plot of land, lot, soil 番地(ばんち): house number, address 盆地(ぼんち): basin (e.g. between mountains) 無地(むじ): plain, unfigured 遊園地(ゆうえんち): amusement park 地震(じしん): earthquake 地理(ちり): geography, geographical features 地下鉄(ちかてつ): underground train, subway 地図(ちず): map Kunyomi: Onyomi: チ、ジ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 地下 (ちか), 天地 (てんち), 境地 (きょうち)"	"ground 地 画数6 554 Details Story Dictionary 地 ground Heisig's Soil and a scorpion (an ""earth animal""). This is, of course, the full character from which the primitive for ground derives. Koohii #1 Picture the ground as an extent of soil where scorpions are buried like land mines. Imagine a sign post saying ´no trespassing, scorpion mines´ if that helps, and how it is dangerous to walk there. Koohii #2 The soil is littered with scorpions everywhere and no ones dares put their foot on the ground. Primitives ground, soil, dirt, ground, scorpion 天地(あめつち): heaven and earth, the universe, nature, top and bottom, realm, sphere, world 意地(いじ): disposition, spirit, willpower, obstinacy, backbone, appetite 位地(いち): place, situation, position, location 見地(けんち): point of view 現地(げんち): actual place, local 心地(ここち): feeling, sensation, mood 地方(じかた): area, locality, district, region, the coast 地形(じぎょう): terrain, geographical features, topography 地獄(じごく): hell 下地(したじ): groundwork, foundation, inclination, aptitude, elementary knowledge of, grounding in, prearrangement, spadework, signs, symptoms, first coat of plastering, soy 地主(じぬし): landlord 地元(じもと): local 植民地(しょくみんち): colony 農地(のうち): agricultural land 墓地(はかち): cemetery, graveyard 余地(よち): place, room, margin, scope 領地(りょうち): territory, dominion 意地悪(いじわる): malicious, ill-tempered, unkind 各地(かくち): every place, various places 生地(きじ): cloth, material, texture, one´s true character, unglazed pottery 基地(きち): base 耕地(こうち): arable land 産地(さんち): producing area 敷地(しきち): site 地盤(じばん): the ground 地味(じみ): plain, simple 団地(だんち): multi-unit apartments 地(ち): earth 地位(ちい): (social) position, status 地域(ちいき): area, region 地下(ちか): basement, underground 地下水(ちかすい): underground water 地球(ちきゅう): the earth 地区(ちく): district, section, sector 地質(ちしつ): geological features 地帯(ちたい): area, zone 地点(ちてん): site, point on a map 地平線(ちへいせん): horizon 地方(ちほう): area, locality, district, region, the coast 地名(ちめい): place name 土地(とち): plot of land, lot, soil 番地(ばんち): house number, address 盆地(ぼんち): basin (e.g. between mountains) 無地(むじ): plain, unfigured 遊園地(ゆうえんち): amusement park 地震(じしん): earthquake 地理(ちり): geography, geographical features 地下鉄(ちかてつ): underground train, subway 地図(ちず): map Kunyomi: Onyomi: チ、ジ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 地下 (ちか), 天地 (てんち), 境地 (きょうち)"
"pond Details Story Dictionary 池 pond Heisig's Water . . . scorpion. It would be easy to slip into a ""lazy image"" in cases like this one, picturing, let us say, a scorpion near the water. But if you picture rather a scorpion letting its venom out drop by drop until it has made a whole pond of the stuff, the image is more likely to remain fixed. Koohii #1 Remember the story of the scorpion that begged the turtle for a ride across the pond? Halfway across the water, the scorpion stung the turtle on the neck and they both sank to the bottom. Koohii #2 Water scorpions loves to live in the pond. Primitives pond, water, water droplets, water pistol, scorpion 乾電池(かんでんち): dry cell, battery 電池(でんち): battery 池(いけ): pond Kunyomi: いけ Onyomi: チ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 池 (いけ)"	"pond 池 画数6 555 Details Story Dictionary 池 pond Heisig's Water . . . scorpion. It would be easy to slip into a ""lazy image"" in cases like this one, picturing, let us say, a scorpion near the water. But if you picture rather a scorpion letting its venom out drop by drop until it has made a whole pond of the stuff, the image is more likely to remain fixed. Koohii #1 Remember the story of the scorpion that begged the turtle for a ride across the pond? Halfway across the water, the scorpion stung the turtle on the neck and they both sank to the bottom. Koohii #2 Water scorpions loves to live in the pond. Primitives pond, water, water droplets, water pistol, scorpion 乾電池(かんでんち): dry cell, battery 電池(でんち): battery 池(いけ): pond Kunyomi: いけ Onyomi: チ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 池 (いけ)"
insect Details Story Dictionary 虫 insect Heisig's Work with the pictograph as you wish. * As a primitive, this insect will refer to the whole insect kingdom; it can be further specified for each kanji that contains it. Koohii #1 I see the bottom of this kanji as an arm, and the top is an insect biting into the arm, sucking some blood. Koohii #2 Insect in one drop of amber. Think Jurassic Park. Primitives insect, in, stick, mouth 昆虫(こんちゅう): insect, bug 虫歯(むしば): cavity, tooth decay, decayed tooth 虫(むし): insect Kunyomi: むし Onyomi: チュウ、キ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 虫 (むし)	insect 虫 画数6 556 Details Story Dictionary 虫 insect Heisig's Work with the pictograph as you wish. * As a primitive, this insect will refer to the whole insect kingdom; it can be further specified for each kanji that contains it. Koohii #1 I see the bottom of this kanji as an arm, and the top is an insect biting into the arm, sucking some blood. Koohii #2 Insect in one drop of amber. Think Jurassic Park. Primitives insect, in, stick, mouth 昆虫(こんちゅう): insect, bug 虫歯(むしば): cavity, tooth decay, decayed tooth 虫(むし): insect Kunyomi: むし Onyomi: チュウ、キ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 虫 (むし)
lightning bug Details Story Dictionary 蛍 lightning bug Heisig's Schoolhouse . . . insect. Koohii #1 Bugs have to go to school to learn how to become lightning bugs. Only the brightest bugs graduate to become lightning bugs. Koohii #2 Q: Who´s the smartest insect in school? A: The lightning-bug. Because he´s so bright! (Image: lightning bug in school with glasses, pocket protector, etc. Maybe even have some cool kids teasing him). Primitives lightning-bug, schoolhouse, owl, crown, insect 蛍光灯(けいこうとう): fluorescent lamp, person who is slow to react Kunyomi: ほたる Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 蛍 (ほたる)	lightning bug 蛍 画数11 557 Details Story Dictionary 蛍 lightning bug Heisig's Schoolhouse . . . insect. Koohii #1 Bugs have to go to school to learn how to become lightning bugs. Only the brightest bugs graduate to become lightning bugs. Koohii #2 Q: Who´s the smartest insect in school? A: The lightning-bug. Because he´s so bright! (Image: lightning bug in school with glasses, pocket protector, etc. Maybe even have some cool kids teasing him). Primitives lightning-bug, schoolhouse, owl, crown, insect 蛍光灯(けいこうとう): fluorescent lamp, person who is slow to react Kunyomi: ほたる Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 蛍 (ほたる)
snake Details Story Dictionary 蛇 snake Heisig's Insect . . . house . . . spoon. Koohii #1 A snake eats insects and he does that outside, while we eat another snake in the house and preferably with a spoon. Koohii #2 Solid Snake crawled like a bug, infiltrated my house, and took out everyone with a spoon. Primitives snake, insect, wind chimes, house, spoon, sitting on the ground 蛇口(じゃぐち): faucet, tap Kunyomi: へび Onyomi: ジャ、ダ、イ、ヤ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 蛇の目 (へびのめ), 蛇腹 (じゃばら), 大蛇 (おろち), 蛇 (へび)	snake 蛇 画数11 558 Details Story Dictionary 蛇 snake Heisig's Insect . . . house . . . spoon. Koohii #1 A snake eats insects and he does that outside, while we eat another snake in the house and preferably with a spoon. Koohii #2 Solid Snake crawled like a bug, infiltrated my house, and took out everyone with a spoon. Primitives snake, insect, wind chimes, house, spoon, sitting on the ground 蛇口(じゃぐち): faucet, tap Kunyomi: へび Onyomi: ジャ、ダ、イ、ヤ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 蛇の目 (へびのめ), 蛇腹 (じゃばら), 大蛇 (おろち), 蛇 (へび)
rainbow Details Story Dictionary 虹 rainbow My Story [Insect {虫} + craft {工}] The *insects* *craft*ed the rainbow through magic and drugs Koohii #1 Little is it known that a rainbow is actually created by insects of different colours flying in formation, a craft they have perfected to create the rainbows we see today. Koohii #2 Rainbow is of course created by billions of colored insects (what? you really thought it was an optical illusion?). However I had problems remembering that the insect primitive goes on the left. If you have similar difficulties, try this: rainbow is an Insect-Craft. Mnemonic: I.C. Rainbow (I see rainbow). Primitives rainbow, insect, craft 虹(にじ): rainbow Kunyomi: にじ Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 虹 (にじ)	rainbow 虹 画数9 559 Details Story Dictionary 虹 rainbow My Story [Insect {虫} + craft {工}] The *insects* *craft*ed the rainbow through magic and drugs Koohii #1 Little is it known that a rainbow is actually created by insects of different colours flying in formation, a craft they have perfected to create the rainbows we see today. Koohii #2 Rainbow is of course created by billions of colored insects (what? you really thought it was an optical illusion?). However I had problems remembering that the insect primitive goes on the left. If you have similar difficulties, try this: rainbow is an Insect-Craft. Mnemonic: I.C. Rainbow (I see rainbow). Primitives rainbow, insect, craft 虹(にじ): rainbow Kunyomi: にじ Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 虹 (にじ)
butterfly Details Story Dictionary 蝶 butterfly Heisig's Insect . . . generation . . . tree. Koohii #1 A butterfly is an insect that appears after spending a generation on a tree as a cocoon. Koohii #2 Butterflies are insects that like to eat just the flowers but leave the leaves behind. (helps me to think of the kanji for leaves, minus the flower bit). Primitives butterfly, insect, Tarzan, generation, tree, wood 蝶(ちょう): butterfly Kunyomi: Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	butterfly 蝶 画数15 560 Details Story Dictionary 蝶 butterfly Heisig's Insect . . . generation . . . tree. Koohii #1 A butterfly is an insect that appears after spending a generation on a tree as a cocoon. Koohii #2 Butterflies are insects that like to eat just the flowers but leave the leaves behind. (helps me to think of the kanji for leaves, minus the flower bit). Primitives butterfly, insect, Tarzan, generation, tree, wood 蝶(ちょう): butterfly Kunyomi: Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
single Details Story Dictionary 独 single My Story I am so single that I have many *cats* and *insects* as pets Koohii #1 The bachelor´s apartment looked like it had been attacked by a pack of wild dogs. There were even insects in the kitchen. No wonder he´s single! Koohii #2 A SINGLE guy is a WILD DOG who BUGS many women. Primitives single, pack of wild dogs, insect 孤独(こどく): isolation, loneliness, solitude 単独(たんどく): sole, independence, single, solo (flight) 独裁(どくさい): dictatorship, despotism 独自(どくじ): original, peculiar, characteristic 独占(どくせん): monopoly 独創(どくそう): originality 独身(どくしん): bachelorhood, single, unmarried, celibate 独特(どくとく): peculiarity, uniqueness, characteristic 独立(どくりつ): independence, self-support 独り(ひとり): alone, unmarried 独り言(ひとりごと): soliloquy, monologue, speaking to oneself Kunyomi: ひと.り Onyomi: ドク、トク Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 独り (ひと.り)	single 独 画数9 561 Details Story Dictionary 独 single My Story I am so single that I have many *cats* and *insects* as pets Koohii #1 The bachelor´s apartment looked like it had been attacked by a pack of wild dogs. There were even insects in the kitchen. No wonder he´s single! Koohii #2 A SINGLE guy is a WILD DOG who BUGS many women. Primitives single, pack of wild dogs, insect 孤独(こどく): isolation, loneliness, solitude 単独(たんどく): sole, independence, single, solo (flight) 独裁(どくさい): dictatorship, despotism 独自(どくじ): original, peculiar, characteristic 独占(どくせん): monopoly 独創(どくそう): originality 独身(どくしん): bachelorhood, single, unmarried, celibate 独特(どくとく): peculiarity, uniqueness, characteristic 独立(どくりつ): independence, self-support 独り(ひとり): alone, unmarried 独り言(ひとりごと): soliloquy, monologue, speaking to oneself Kunyomi: ひと.り Onyomi: ドク、トク Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 独り (ひと.り)
silkworm Details Story Dictionary 蚕 silkworm Heisig's Heavens . . . insect. Be sure to do something about the position of the two elements. Koohii #1 There are no insects in heaven - well, that is, except for silkworms. What, do you expect Jesus to import his fancy robes from China? Koohii #2 In China it was believed that the silkworms were insects sent from heaven because of the beautiful material they produced. Primitives silkworm, heavens, insect Kunyomi: かいこ、こ Onyomi: サン、テン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 蚕 (かいこ)	silkworm 蚕 画数10 562 Details Story Dictionary 蚕 silkworm Heisig's Heavens . . . insect. Be sure to do something about the position of the two elements. Koohii #1 There are no insects in heaven - well, that is, except for silkworms. What, do you expect Jesus to import his fancy robes from China? Koohii #2 In China it was believed that the silkworms were insects sent from heaven because of the beautiful material they produced. Primitives silkworm, heavens, insect Kunyomi: かいこ、こ Onyomi: サン、テン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 蚕 (かいこ)
wind Details Story Dictionary 風 wind Heisig's Windy . . . drops of . . . insects. Hint: think of the last two primitives as representing a swarm of gnats, those tiny drops of pesky insects. Koohii #1 They say that when an INSECT flaps its wings even the single DROP of WIND that it creates is sometimes enough to create a hurricane on the other side of the Earth. Koohii #2 The WIND usually carries things around in it - drops of rain or snow, and lots of insects. Primitives wind, gnats, drop, insect 風車(かざぐるま): windmill, pinwheel 気風(きふう): character, traits, ethos 風習(ふうしゅう): custom 風俗(ふうぞく): manners, customs, sex service, sex industry 風土(ふうど): natural features, topography, climate, spiritual features 暴風(ぼうふう): storm, windstorm, gale 洋風(ようふう): western style 和風(わふう): Japanese style 風邪(かぜ): common cold 扇風機(せんぷうき): electric fan 風景(ふうけい): scenery 風船(ふうせん): balloon 風呂(ふろ): bath 風呂敷(ふろしき): wrapping cloth, cloth wrapper 台風(たいふう): typhoon 風(かぜ): wind, cold Kunyomi: かぜ、かざ-、-かぜ Onyomi: フウ、フ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 風力 (ふうりょく), 風俗 (ふうぞく), 強風 (きょうふう), 風 (かぜ)	wind 風 画数9 563 Details Story Dictionary 風 wind Heisig's Windy . . . drops of . . . insects. Hint: think of the last two primitives as representing a swarm of gnats, those tiny drops of pesky insects. Koohii #1 They say that when an INSECT flaps its wings even the single DROP of WIND that it creates is sometimes enough to create a hurricane on the other side of the Earth. Koohii #2 The WIND usually carries things around in it - drops of rain or snow, and lots of insects. Primitives wind, gnats, drop, insect 風車(かざぐるま): windmill, pinwheel 気風(きふう): character, traits, ethos 風習(ふうしゅう): custom 風俗(ふうぞく): manners, customs, sex service, sex industry 風土(ふうど): natural features, topography, climate, spiritual features 暴風(ぼうふう): storm, windstorm, gale 洋風(ようふう): western style 和風(わふう): Japanese style 風邪(かぜ): common cold 扇風機(せんぷうき): electric fan 風景(ふうけい): scenery 風船(ふうせん): balloon 風呂(ふろ): bath 風呂敷(ふろしき): wrapping cloth, cloth wrapper 台風(たいふう): typhoon 風(かぜ): wind, cold Kunyomi: かぜ、かざ-、-かぜ Onyomi: フウ、フ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 風力 (ふうりょく), 風俗 (ふうぞく), 強風 (きょうふう), 風 (かぜ)
"self Details Story Dictionary 己 self Heisig's The kanji carries the abstract sense of the self, the deep-down inner structure of the human person that mythology has often depicted as a snake - which is what the kanji shows pictographically. Be sure to keep it distinct from the similar keywords, oneself (frame 36) and I (frame 17). * As a primitive element, this kanji can be used for the snake - of which it is a pictograph - or any of the various concrete symbolic meanings the snake has in myth and fable. Koohii #1 This kanji looks like the ""s"" of ""self"", looking at its own reflection in a mirror (reversed sideways), as if pondering about his ""self"". Koohii #2 When Superman looks at himself in the mirror, this is what he sees on his chest. Primitives self, snake, self 自己(じこ): self, oneself Kunyomi: おのれ、つちのと、な Onyomi: コ、キ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 自己 (じこ), 利己 (りこ), 己 (おのれ)"	"self 己 画数3 564 Details Story Dictionary 己 self Heisig's The kanji carries the abstract sense of the self, the deep-down inner structure of the human person that mythology has often depicted as a snake - which is what the kanji shows pictographically. Be sure to keep it distinct from the similar keywords, oneself (frame 36) and I (frame 17). * As a primitive element, this kanji can be used for the snake - of which it is a pictograph - or any of the various concrete symbolic meanings the snake has in myth and fable. Koohii #1 This kanji looks like the ""s"" of ""self"", looking at its own reflection in a mirror (reversed sideways), as if pondering about his ""self"". Koohii #2 When Superman looks at himself in the mirror, this is what he sees on his chest. Primitives self, snake, self 自己(じこ): self, oneself Kunyomi: おのれ、つちのと、な Onyomi: コ、キ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 自己 (じこ), 利己 (りこ), 己 (おのれ)"
rouse (wake up) / occur Details Story Dictionary 起 rouse (wake up) / occur My Story [Run {走} + Snake/myself] If you rouse (awaken) a *snake* you better *RUN*! Koohii #1 Be careful when you´re RUNNING through the jungle, because you might step on and ROUSE a sleeping SNAKE. Then you´ll have to RUN like hell before it bites you! Koohii #2 Nothing will rouse you quite as much as finding a snake in your bed. You will run away like you´ve never run before! Primitives rouse, run, soil, dirt, ground, mend, snake, self 起源(きげん): origin, beginning, rise 起点(きてん): starting point 起伏(きふく): undulation 引き起こす(ひきおこす): to cause 起す(おこす): raise, cause, wake someone 起こる(おこる): occur, happen 起床(きしょう): rising, getting out of bed 起こす(おこす): wake (up) 起きる(おきる): get up, rise Kunyomi: お.きる、お.こる、お.こす、おこ.す、た.つ Onyomi: キ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 起きる (お.きる), 起こす (お.こす), 起こる (お.こる)	rouse (wake up) / occur 起 画数10 565 Details Story Dictionary 起 rouse (wake up) / occur My Story [Run {走} + Snake/myself] If you rouse (awaken) a *snake* you better *RUN*! Koohii #1 Be careful when you´re RUNNING through the jungle, because you might step on and ROUSE a sleeping SNAKE. Then you´ll have to RUN like hell before it bites you! Koohii #2 Nothing will rouse you quite as much as finding a snake in your bed. You will run away like you´ve never run before! Primitives rouse, run, soil, dirt, ground, mend, snake, self 起源(きげん): origin, beginning, rise 起点(きてん): starting point 起伏(きふく): undulation 引き起こす(ひきおこす): to cause 起す(おこす): raise, cause, wake someone 起こる(おこる): occur, happen 起床(きしょう): rising, getting out of bed 起こす(おこす): wake (up) 起きる(おきる): get up, rise Kunyomi: お.きる、お.こる、お.こす、おこ.す、た.つ Onyomi: キ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 起きる (お.きる), 起こす (お.こす), 起こる (お.こる)
queen Details Story Dictionary 妃 queen Heisig's Woman . . . snake. Koohii #1 Cleopatra. Koohii #2 Be careful you don´t pick up a drag queen at a club - they might look like women, but they have a snake down there! Primitives queen, woman, snake, self Kunyomi: きさき Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	queen 妃 画数6 566 Details Story Dictionary 妃 queen Heisig's Woman . . . snake. Koohii #1 Cleopatra. Koohii #2 Be careful you don´t pick up a drag queen at a club - they might look like women, but they have a snake down there! Primitives queen, woman, snake, self Kunyomi: きさき Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
reformation Details Story Dictionary 改 reformation Heisig's Pluralizing the snake and focusing on a single taskmaster may help recommend the image of Ireland's most famous reformer, St. Patrick, who, legend has it, drove away the snakes from the land. Koohii #1 The taskmaster of Slytherin ( wizardry house symbolized by a snake ) plans a reformation of Hogwarts, disallowing the study of magic to all muggle-born. こわいですね！. Koohii #2 This is a Meiji reformation taskmaster, trying to force usage of the Roman alphabet in Japan in place of Kanji. He holds a snake in the shape of the letter S and tries to explain how much simpler this is (j/k). Primitives reformation, snake, self, taskmaster 改まる(あらたまる): to be renewed 改悪(かいあく): deterioration, changing for the worse 改革(かいかく): reform, reformation, innovation 改修(かいしゅう): repair, improvement 改定(かいてい): reform 改訂(かいてい): revision 改良(かいりょう): improvement, reform 改めて(あらためて): again 改める(あらためる): to change, alter, reform, revise 改札(かいさつ): examination of tickets 改正(かいせい): revision, amendment, alteration 改善(かいぜん): betterment, improvement, incremental and continuous improvement 改造(かいぞう): remodeling Kunyomi: あらた.める、あらた.まる Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 改まる (あらた.まる), 改める (あらた.める)	reformation 改 画数7 567 Details Story Dictionary 改 reformation Heisig's Pluralizing the snake and focusing on a single taskmaster may help recommend the image of Ireland's most famous reformer, St. Patrick, who, legend has it, drove away the snakes from the land. Koohii #1 The taskmaster of Slytherin ( wizardry house symbolized by a snake ) plans a reformation of Hogwarts, disallowing the study of magic to all muggle-born. こわいですね！. Koohii #2 This is a Meiji reformation taskmaster, trying to force usage of the Roman alphabet in Japan in place of Kanji. He holds a snake in the shape of the letter S and tries to explain how much simpler this is (j/k). Primitives reformation, snake, self, taskmaster 改まる(あらたまる): to be renewed 改悪(かいあく): deterioration, changing for the worse 改革(かいかく): reform, reformation, innovation 改修(かいしゅう): repair, improvement 改定(かいてい): reform 改訂(かいてい): revision 改良(かいりょう): improvement, reform 改めて(あらためて): again 改める(あらためる): to change, alter, reform, revise 改札(かいさつ): examination of tickets 改正(かいせい): revision, amendment, alteration 改善(かいぜん): betterment, improvement, incremental and continuous improvement 改造(かいぞう): remodeling Kunyomi: あらた.める、あらた.まる Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 改まる (あらた.まる), 改める (あらた.める)
scribe Details Story Dictionary 記 scribe My Story *Saying* things to *yourself* honestly is the KEY to a successful diary (#scribe). Koohii #1 A scribe writes down the words spoken by a snake (i.e. a lawyer). Koohii #2 Snakes have no hands. So, when a snake needs to write down something, it has to call in a SCRIBE, who will write down all the sayings of the snake. Primitives scribe, say, words, keitai, mouth, snake, self 記載(きさい): mention, entry 記述(きじゅつ): describing, descriptor 記名(きめい): signature, register 記す(しるす): to note, to write down 暗記(あんき): memorization 記憶(きおく): memory, recollection, remembrance 記号(きごう): symbol, code 記事(きじ): article, news story, report, account 記者(きしゃ): reporter 記入(きにゅう): entry, filling in of forms 記念(きねん): commemoration, memory 記録(きろく): record, minutes, document 伝記(でんき): biography, life story 筆記(ひっき): (taking) notes, copying 日記(にっき): diary Kunyomi: しる.す Onyomi: キ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 記す (しる.す)	scribe 記 画数10 568 Details Story Dictionary 記 scribe My Story *Saying* things to *yourself* honestly is the KEY to a successful diary (#scribe). Koohii #1 A scribe writes down the words spoken by a snake (i.e. a lawyer). Koohii #2 Snakes have no hands. So, when a snake needs to write down something, it has to call in a SCRIBE, who will write down all the sayings of the snake. Primitives scribe, say, words, keitai, mouth, snake, self 記載(きさい): mention, entry 記述(きじゅつ): describing, descriptor 記名(きめい): signature, register 記す(しるす): to note, to write down 暗記(あんき): memorization 記憶(きおく): memory, recollection, remembrance 記号(きごう): symbol, code 記事(きじ): article, news story, report, account 記者(きしゃ): reporter 記入(きにゅう): entry, filling in of forms 記念(きねん): commemoration, memory 記録(きろく): record, minutes, document 伝記(でんき): biography, life story 筆記(ひっき): (taking) notes, copying 日記(にっき): diary Kunyomi: しる.す Onyomi: キ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 記す (しる.す)
"wrap Details Story Dictionary 包 wrap My Story [Bind + Snake/myself] The *snake* bound up its prey by wrapping his body around it. * The primitive meaning of wrap should always be used with the snake in mind to avoid confusion with similar terms. Just let ""wrap"" mean ""with a snake coiled about it."" Koohii #1 The snake bound up its prey by wrapping his body around it. Koohii #2 Imagine Jessie sending in her Ekans (snake pokemon), and telling it to use bind attack to wrap up pikachu. Primitives wrap, bound up, snake, self 包む(くるむ): to be engulfed in, to be enveloped by, to wrap up, to tuck in, to pack, to do up, to cover with, to dress in, to conceal 小包(こづつみ): parcel, package 包み(つつみ): bundle, package, parcel, bale 包装(ほうそう): packing, wrapping 包帯(ほうたい): bandage, dressing 包む(つつむ): wrap, pack Kunyomi: つつ.む、くる.む Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 包む (つつ.む)"	"wrap 包 画数5 569 Details Story Dictionary 包 wrap My Story [Bind + Snake/myself] The *snake* bound up its prey by wrapping his body around it. * The primitive meaning of wrap should always be used with the snake in mind to avoid confusion with similar terms. Just let ""wrap"" mean ""with a snake coiled about it."" Koohii #1 The snake bound up its prey by wrapping his body around it. Koohii #2 Imagine Jessie sending in her Ekans (snake pokemon), and telling it to use bind attack to wrap up pikachu. Primitives wrap, bound up, snake, self 包む(くるむ): to be engulfed in, to be enveloped by, to wrap up, to tuck in, to pack, to do up, to cover with, to dress in, to conceal 小包(こづつみ): parcel, package 包み(つつみ): bundle, package, parcel, bale 包装(ほうそう): packing, wrapping 包帯(ほうたい): bandage, dressing 包む(つつむ): wrap, pack Kunyomi: つつ.む、くる.む Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 包む (つつ.む)"
placenta Details Story Dictionary 胞 placenta Heisig's Part of the body . . . wrap. Koohii #1 Imagine a newborn baby, fresh out of the womb, being entirely wrapped by the long piece of flesh, called a placenta, that once fed him. Koohii #2 Placenta is flesh/part of the body wrapped around the foetus. Primitives placenta, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, wrap, bound up, snake, self 細胞(さいぼう): cell (biology) Kunyomi: Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	placenta 胞 画数9 570 Details Story Dictionary 胞 placenta Heisig's Part of the body . . . wrap. Koohii #1 Imagine a newborn baby, fresh out of the womb, being entirely wrapped by the long piece of flesh, called a placenta, that once fed him. Koohii #2 Placenta is flesh/part of the body wrapped around the foetus. Primitives placenta, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, wrap, bound up, snake, self 細胞(さいぼう): cell (biology) Kunyomi: Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
cannon Details Story Dictionary 砲 cannon Heisig's Stones . . . wrap. Koohii #1 Primitive cannons fired stones wrapped with poisonous snakes. Koohii #2 Cannon = stone projectile wrapped by a barrel. Primitives cannon, stone, rock, wrap, bound up, snake, self 鉄砲(てっぽう): gun Kunyomi: Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	cannon 砲 画数10 571 Details Story Dictionary 砲 cannon Heisig's Stones . . . wrap. Koohii #1 Primitive cannons fired stones wrapped with poisonous snakes. Koohii #2 Cannon = stone projectile wrapped by a barrel. Primitives cannon, stone, rock, wrap, bound up, snake, self 鉄砲(てっぽう): gun Kunyomi: Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
bubble Details Story Dictionary 泡 bubble Heisig's Water . . . wrap. Koohii #1 When water forms a bubble, it wraps a pocket of air. Koohii #2 To prevent people from popping bubble wrap for fun, the post office has started filling the bubbles with water. Primitives bubbles, water, water droplets, water pistol, wrap, bound up, snake, self 泡(あわ): bubble, foam, froth Kunyomi: あわ Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 泡 (あわ)	bubble 泡 画数8 572 Details Story Dictionary 泡 bubble Heisig's Water . . . wrap. Koohii #1 When water forms a bubble, it wraps a pocket of air. Koohii #2 To prevent people from popping bubble wrap for fun, the post office has started filling the bubbles with water. Primitives bubbles, water, water droplets, water pistol, wrap, bound up, snake, self 泡(あわ): bubble, foam, froth Kunyomi: あわ Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 泡 (あわ)
"tortoise Details Story Dictionary 亀 tortoise Heisig's This is not a turtle (See frame 250) but a tortoise, however you wish to picture the difference. Let the ""bound up"" at the to prefer to the head, and the two suns, with a long tail running through it, to the shell. * As a primitive, this kanji is abbreviated to its bottom half, ⻲, and comes to mean eel. (If it is any help, this kanji in its full form can also be remembered through its abbreviation's primitive meaning.) Koohii #1 It seems bizarre, but tortoises are a genetic cross with the head of a fish and the tail of an eel. Where the shell comes from, no one knows. Koohii #2 A tortoise is prosperity bound up with a tail. They are very lucky creatures. Primitives tortoise, bound up, eels, sun, day Kunyomi: かめ Onyomi: キ、キュウ、キン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 亀 (かめ)"	"tortoise 亀 画数11 573 Details Story Dictionary 亀 tortoise Heisig's This is not a turtle (See frame 250) but a tortoise, however you wish to picture the difference. Let the ""bound up"" at the to prefer to the head, and the two suns, with a long tail running through it, to the shell. * As a primitive, this kanji is abbreviated to its bottom half, ⻲, and comes to mean eel. (If it is any help, this kanji in its full form can also be remembered through its abbreviation's primitive meaning.) Koohii #1 It seems bizarre, but tortoises are a genetic cross with the head of a fish and the tail of an eel. Where the shell comes from, no one knows. Koohii #2 A tortoise is prosperity bound up with a tail. They are very lucky creatures. Primitives tortoise, bound up, eels, sun, day Kunyomi: かめ Onyomi: キ、キュウ、キン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 亀 (かめ)"
electricity Details Story Dictionary 電 electricity Heisig's Rain/weather . . . eel. Koohii #1 Think of a two natural sources of electricity: electrical storms (a form of weather) and electrical eels. 電話 でんわ phone, call. Koohii #2 This kanji was invented by the first Chinaman to discover electricity. He was so unfortunate, he stepped on an electric eel and got struck by lighting at the same time. Primitives electricity, rain, weather, eel, sun, day 電源(でんげん): source of electricity, power (button on TV etc.) 電線(でんせん): electric line 乾電池(かんでんち): dry cell, battery 停電(ていでん): failure of electricity 電球(でんきゅう): light bulb 電子(でんし): electron, (as a prefix) electronic, electronics 電池(でんち): battery 電柱(でんちゅう): telephone pole, telegraph pole, lightpole 電波(でんぱ): electro-magnetic wave 電流(でんりゅう): electric current 電力(でんりょく): electric power 発電(はつでん): generation (e.g. power) 電灯(でんとう): light 電報(でんぽう): telegram 電気(でんき): electricity, (electric) light 電車(でんしゃ): electric train 電話(でんわ): telephone Kunyomi: Onyomi: デン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds:	electricity 電 画数13 574 Details Story Dictionary 電 electricity Heisig's Rain/weather . . . eel. Koohii #1 Think of a two natural sources of electricity: electrical storms (a form of weather) and electrical eels. 電話 でんわ phone, call. Koohii #2 This kanji was invented by the first Chinaman to discover electricity. He was so unfortunate, he stepped on an electric eel and got struck by lighting at the same time. Primitives electricity, rain, weather, eel, sun, day 電源(でんげん): source of electricity, power (button on TV etc.) 電線(でんせん): electric line 乾電池(かんでんち): dry cell, battery 停電(ていでん): failure of electricity 電球(でんきゅう): light bulb 電子(でんし): electron, (as a prefix) electronic, electronics 電池(でんち): battery 電柱(でんちゅう): telephone pole, telegraph pole, lightpole 電波(でんぱ): electro-magnetic wave 電流(でんりゅう): electric current 電力(でんりょく): electric power 発電(はつでん): generation (e.g. power) 電灯(でんとう): light 電報(でんぽう): telegram 電気(でんき): electricity, (electric) light 電車(でんしゃ): electric train 電話(でんわ): telephone Kunyomi: Onyomi: デン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds:
dragon Details Story Dictionary 竜 dragon My Story The dragon *rose up* from the *field* with a *hook* in its tail Koohii #1 Have you ever seen an asian DRAGON? it looks like an eel, but can stand up because it has legs. Koohii #2 If the poor villagers don´t provide him with a vase full of eels each day, the dragon will lay waste to the village. Primitives dragon, vase, stand up, eel, sun, day Kunyomi: たつ、いせ Onyomi: リュウ、リョウ、ロウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	dragon 竜 画数10 575 Details Story Dictionary 竜 dragon My Story The dragon *rose up* from the *field* with a *hook* in its tail Koohii #1 Have you ever seen an asian DRAGON? it looks like an eel, but can stand up because it has legs. Koohii #2 If the poor villagers don´t provide him with a vase full of eels each day, the dragon will lay waste to the village. Primitives dragon, vase, stand up, eel, sun, day Kunyomi: たつ、いせ Onyomi: リュウ、リョウ、ロウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
waterfall Details Story Dictionary 滝 waterfall My Story A waterfall?? you mean a *water* *dragon* in its true form Koohii #1 The Water Dragon dwells in the waterfall. Koohii #2 Ever went under a waterfall, vase in hand, trying to catch eels from the water as it pours down? Primitives waterfall, water, water droplets, water pistol, dragon, vase, stand up, eel, sun, day 滝(たき): waterfall Kunyomi: たき Onyomi: ロウ、ソウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 滝 (たき)	waterfall 滝 画数13 576 Details Story Dictionary 滝 waterfall My Story A waterfall?? you mean a *water* *dragon* in its true form Koohii #1 The Water Dragon dwells in the waterfall. Koohii #2 Ever went under a waterfall, vase in hand, trying to catch eels from the water as it pours down? Primitives waterfall, water, water droplets, water pistol, dragon, vase, stand up, eel, sun, day 滝(たき): waterfall Kunyomi: たき Onyomi: ロウ、ソウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 滝 (たき)
"pork Details Story Dictionary 豚 pork Heisig's Flesh . . . sow. Koohii #1 Pork comes from the flesh of a sow. Koohii #2 One possible pictograph for ""sow"" primitive: the top line is a feeding trough, the stroke touching it is the head, the long curved stroke is the body (with a little hook at the end for the curly tail), and the four remaining strokes are the sow´s legs. Primitives pork, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sow, pig 豚肉(ぶたにく): pork Kunyomi: ぶた Onyomi: トン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 豚 (ぶた)"	"pork 豚 画数11 577 Details Story Dictionary 豚 pork Heisig's Flesh . . . sow. Koohii #1 Pork comes from the flesh of a sow. Koohii #2 One possible pictograph for ""sow"" primitive: the top line is a feeding trough, the stroke touching it is the head, the long curved stroke is the body (with a little hook at the end for the curly tail), and the four remaining strokes are the sow´s legs. Primitives pork, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sow, pig 豚肉(ぶたにく): pork Kunyomi: ぶた Onyomi: トン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 豚 (ぶた)"
pursue Details Story Dictionary 逐 pursue Heisig's Sows . . . road. Koohii #1 In association with consummate (#540), our sow is on the road pursuing a mate. Koohii #2 The pig is on the road in the pursue of the turtle who is trying to escape (#283). (See story on escape (#283) & consummate (#540)). Primitives pursue, sow, pig, road Kunyomi: Onyomi: チク Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	pursue 逐 画数10 578 Details Story Dictionary 逐 pursue Heisig's Sows . . . road. Koohii #1 In association with consummate (#540), our sow is on the road pursuing a mate. Koohii #2 The pig is on the road in the pursue of the turtle who is trying to escape (#283). (See story on escape (#283) & consummate (#540)). Primitives pursue, sow, pig, road Kunyomi: Onyomi: チク Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
consummate Details Story Dictionary 遂 consummate Heisig's The horns atop the sow suggest a boar at work in the background. Add the element for a road. Now create a story whose meaning is: consummate. Koohii #1 This is still Miss Piggy only she´s gotten horny (as she often does) and now she´s pursuing Kermit to help her consummate her desires. Koohii #2 In association with pursue (#539), our sow has tracked down a suitable mate, they´ve consummated their relationship, and now the little sow is all grown up into a boar with horns. Primitives consummate, horns, sow, pig, road 遂げる(とげる): to accomplish, to achieve, to carry out やり遂げる(やりとげる): to accomplish 遂に(ついに): finally, at last Kunyomi: と.げる、つい.に Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 遂げる (と.げる)	consummate 遂 画数12 579 Details Story Dictionary 遂 consummate Heisig's The horns atop the sow suggest a boar at work in the background. Add the element for a road. Now create a story whose meaning is: consummate. Koohii #1 This is still Miss Piggy only she´s gotten horny (as she often does) and now she´s pursuing Kermit to help her consummate her desires. Koohii #2 In association with pursue (#539), our sow has tracked down a suitable mate, they´ve consummated their relationship, and now the little sow is all grown up into a boar with horns. Primitives consummate, horns, sow, pig, road 遂げる(とげる): to accomplish, to achieve, to carry out やり遂げる(やりとげる): to accomplish 遂に(ついに): finally, at last Kunyomi: と.げる、つい.に Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 遂げる (と.げる)
"house Details Story Dictionary 家 house Heisig's This is the full character whose primitive form we learned already. To help a little, this kanji recalls the times when the ""domestic"" animals were, as the word itself suggests, really kept in the house. Hence: house . . . sow. Koohii #1 Think of ""The Three Little Pigs"". There was a house made of straw, another made of sticks, and a third made of bricks, each occupied by a pig. So, naturally, housetop over pig means house, the central element of that story. Koohii #2 Man, ever hear of cleaning? This house is a pig sty. Primitives house, sow, pig 家出(いえで): running away from home, leaving home 家主(いえぬし): landlord 家計(かけい): household economy, family finances 家畜(かちく): domestic animals, livestock, cattle 家来(けらい): retainer, retinue, servant 実業家(じつぎょうか): industrialist, businessman 一家(いっか): house, home, a family, a household, one´s family, one´s folks, a style 大家(おおや): landlord, landlady 家屋(かおく): house, building 画家(がか): painter, artist 家具(かぐ): furniture 家事(かじ): housework, domestic chores 貸家(かしや): house for rent 家庭(かてい): home, family, household 国家(こっか): state, country, nation 作家(さっか): author, writer, novelist, artist 農家(のうか): farmer, farm family 家賃(やちん): rent 家主(やぬし): landlord 家(いえ): house, family 家族(かぞく): family, members of a family 家内(かない): (my) wife Kunyomi: いえ、や、うち Onyomi: カ、ケ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 家屋 (かおく), 家庭 (かてい), 作家 (さっか), 家 (いえ), 家 (や)"	"house 家 画数10 580 Details Story Dictionary 家 house Heisig's This is the full character whose primitive form we learned already. To help a little, this kanji recalls the times when the ""domestic"" animals were, as the word itself suggests, really kept in the house. Hence: house . . . sow. Koohii #1 Think of ""The Three Little Pigs"". There was a house made of straw, another made of sticks, and a third made of bricks, each occupied by a pig. So, naturally, housetop over pig means house, the central element of that story. Koohii #2 Man, ever hear of cleaning? This house is a pig sty. Primitives house, sow, pig 家出(いえで): running away from home, leaving home 家主(いえぬし): landlord 家計(かけい): household economy, family finances 家畜(かちく): domestic animals, livestock, cattle 家来(けらい): retainer, retinue, servant 実業家(じつぎょうか): industrialist, businessman 一家(いっか): house, home, a family, a household, one´s family, one´s folks, a style 大家(おおや): landlord, landlady 家屋(かおく): house, building 画家(がか): painter, artist 家具(かぐ): furniture 家事(かじ): housework, domestic chores 貸家(かしや): house for rent 家庭(かてい): home, family, household 国家(こっか): state, country, nation 作家(さっか): author, writer, novelist, artist 農家(のうか): farmer, farm family 家賃(やちん): rent 家主(やぬし): landlord 家(いえ): house, family 家族(かぞく): family, members of a family 家内(かない): (my) wife Kunyomi: いえ、や、うち Onyomi: カ、ケ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 家屋 (かおく), 家庭 (かてい), 作家 (さっか), 家 (いえ), 家 (や)"
marry into Details Story Dictionary 嫁 marry into Heisig's The kanji in this frame demonstrates the traditional Japanese approach to marriage: it is the woman who leaves her family for another household, thus marrying into a man's family. Koohii #1 Since the Nihonjin man is hardly ever home, the woman feels more like she´s married into the house than into a relationship. Koohii #2 Traditionally, it was the women who would marry into the households of their husband´s families. Primitives marry into, woman, house, sow, pig 花嫁(はなよめ): bride 嫁(よめ): bride, daughter-in-law Kunyomi: よめ、とつ.ぐ、い.く、ゆ.く Onyomi: カ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 嫁ぐ (とつ.ぐ), 嫁 (よめ)	marry into 嫁 画数13 581 Details Story Dictionary 嫁 marry into Heisig's The kanji in this frame demonstrates the traditional Japanese approach to marriage: it is the woman who leaves her family for another household, thus marrying into a man's family. Koohii #1 Since the Nihonjin man is hardly ever home, the woman feels more like she´s married into the house than into a relationship. Koohii #2 Traditionally, it was the women who would marry into the households of their husband´s families. Primitives marry into, woman, house, sow, pig 花嫁(はなよめ): bride 嫁(よめ): bride, daughter-in-law Kunyomi: よめ、とつ.ぐ、い.く、ゆ.く Onyomi: カ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 嫁ぐ (とつ.ぐ), 嫁 (よめ)
overpowering Details Story Dictionary 豪 overpowering Heisig's Tall . . . crowned . . . sow. Koohii #1 In Orwell´s ´Animal Farm´ the pigs overpowered every other animals. They crownded themselves as ruler of the farm and walked tall on their rear legs, a crime strictly forbidden in the animal republic. Koohii #2 Ganon, the tall crowned pig, has been overpowering ther land of Hyrule for decades. Primitives overpowering, tall, top hat, mouth, crown, sow, pig 富豪(ふごう): wealthy person, millionaire 豪華(ごうか): wonderful, gorgeous, splendor, pomp, extravagance Kunyomi: えら.い Onyomi: ゴウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	overpowering 豪 画数14 582 Details Story Dictionary 豪 overpowering Heisig's Tall . . . crowned . . . sow. Koohii #1 In Orwell´s ´Animal Farm´ the pigs overpowered every other animals. They crownded themselves as ruler of the farm and walked tall on their rear legs, a crime strictly forbidden in the animal republic. Koohii #2 Ganon, the tall crowned pig, has been overpowering ther land of Hyrule for decades. Primitives overpowering, tall, top hat, mouth, crown, sow, pig 富豪(ふごう): wealthy person, millionaire 豪華(ごうか): wonderful, gorgeous, splendor, pomp, extravagance Kunyomi: えら.い Onyomi: ゴウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
intestines Details Story Dictionary 腸 intestines Heisig's Flesh . . . piggy bank. Koohii #1 Intestines are the part of the body that is taken out of piglets to make piggy banks. Just imagine factory workers scraping out the intestines of real piglets and packaging them up for little children. Koohii #2 Taking things too literally, you used a real piglet as a piggy bank. Now when you smash it open to get your coins out, you have to dig out your coins from its intestines. ew. Primitives intestines, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, piggy bank, sun, day, piglets 腸(ちょう): guts, bowels, intestines Kunyomi: はらわた Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	intestines 腸 画数13 583 Details Story Dictionary 腸 intestines Heisig's Flesh . . . piggy bank. Koohii #1 Intestines are the part of the body that is taken out of piglets to make piggy banks. Just imagine factory workers scraping out the intestines of real piglets and packaging them up for little children. Koohii #2 Taking things too literally, you used a real piglet as a piggy bank. Now when you smash it open to get your coins out, you have to dig out your coins from its intestines. ew. Primitives intestines, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, piggy bank, sun, day, piglets 腸(ちょう): guts, bowels, intestines Kunyomi: はらわた Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
location Details Story Dictionary 場 location Heisig's Soil . . . piggy bank. Koohii #1 You´re looking for a good location to bury your piggy bank savings. It has to be in some soft soil that´s easy to dig up, well hidden, and easy to remember like this kanji. Koohii #2 Don´t confuse with place (#1127). Think of location not as a single fixed spot, but as the act of locating. You´ve buried your piggy bank in the dirt in your backyard, but you can´t remember where. You frantically dig everywhere in a process of location to find your piggy bank. Primitives location, soil, dirt, ground, piggy bank, sun, day, piglets 現場(げんじょう): actual spot, scene, scene of the crime 式場(しきじょう): ceremonial hall, place of ceremony (e.g. marriage) 相場(そうば): market price, speculation, estimation 道場(どうじょう): dojo, hall used for martial arts training, mandala 農場(のうじょう): farm (agriculture) 本場(ほんば): home, habitat, center, best place, genuine 満場(まんじょう): unanimous, whole audience 役場(やくば): town hall 来場(らいじょう): attendance 市場(いちば): town market, the marketplace (economics) 劇場(げきじょう): theatre 現場(げんば): actual spot, scene, scene of the crime 工場(こうば): factory, plant, mill, workshop 酒場(さかば): bar, bar-room 立場(たちば): standpoint, position, situation 登場(とうじょう): entry (on stage), appearance (on screen), entrance, introduction (into a market) 入場(にゅうじょう): entrance, admission, entering 場(ば): place, (physics) field 場所(ばしょ): place, location 場面(ばめん): scene, setting (e.g. of novel) 広場(ひろば): plaza 牧場(ぼくじょう): farm (livestock), pasture land, meadow, grazing land 売り場(うりば): selling area 会場(かいじょう): the place of meeting 工場(こうじょう): factory 駐車場(ちゅうしゃじょう): parking lot 場合(ばあい): case, occasion 飛行場(ひこうじょう): airfield, airport Kunyomi: ば Onyomi: ジョウ、チョウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 場 (ば)	location 場 画数12 584 Details Story Dictionary 場 location Heisig's Soil . . . piggy bank. Koohii #1 You´re looking for a good location to bury your piggy bank savings. It has to be in some soft soil that´s easy to dig up, well hidden, and easy to remember like this kanji. Koohii #2 Don´t confuse with place (#1127). Think of location not as a single fixed spot, but as the act of locating. You´ve buried your piggy bank in the dirt in your backyard, but you can´t remember where. You frantically dig everywhere in a process of location to find your piggy bank. Primitives location, soil, dirt, ground, piggy bank, sun, day, piglets 現場(げんじょう): actual spot, scene, scene of the crime 式場(しきじょう): ceremonial hall, place of ceremony (e.g. marriage) 相場(そうば): market price, speculation, estimation 道場(どうじょう): dojo, hall used for martial arts training, mandala 農場(のうじょう): farm (agriculture) 本場(ほんば): home, habitat, center, best place, genuine 満場(まんじょう): unanimous, whole audience 役場(やくば): town hall 来場(らいじょう): attendance 市場(いちば): town market, the marketplace (economics) 劇場(げきじょう): theatre 現場(げんば): actual spot, scene, scene of the crime 工場(こうば): factory, plant, mill, workshop 酒場(さかば): bar, bar-room 立場(たちば): standpoint, position, situation 登場(とうじょう): entry (on stage), appearance (on screen), entrance, introduction (into a market) 入場(にゅうじょう): entrance, admission, entering 場(ば): place, (physics) field 場所(ばしょ): place, location 場面(ばめん): scene, setting (e.g. of novel) 広場(ひろば): plaza 牧場(ぼくじょう): farm (livestock), pasture land, meadow, grazing land 売り場(うりば): selling area 会場(かいじょう): the place of meeting 工場(こうじょう): factory 駐車場(ちゅうしゃじょう): parking lot 場合(ばあい): case, occasion 飛行場(ひこうじょう): airfield, airport Kunyomi: ば Onyomi: ジョウ、チョウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 場 (ば)
"hot water Details Story Dictionary 湯 hot water Heisig's Water . . . piggy bank. Koohii #1 Imagine a hot water kettle for your tea, except this one is a pink piggy bank that pours the water from its snout (and squeals when the water is piping hot). Make sure to use a potholder! Koohii #2 Hot water is a phrase that can mean ""getting into trouble."" This kanji pictures just one of the many meanings of that phrase: it´s water that you get into (with creditors and the like) when your piggy bank is empty! Primitives hot water, water, water droplets, water pistol, piggy bank, sun, day, piglets 茶の湯(ちゃのゆ): tea ceremony 熱湯(ねっとう): boiling water 湯気(ゆげ): steam, vapour 湯飲み(ゆのみ): teacup 湯(ゆ): hot water Kunyomi: ゆ Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 湯 (ゆ)"	"hot water 湯 画数12 585 Details Story Dictionary 湯 hot water Heisig's Water . . . piggy bank. Koohii #1 Imagine a hot water kettle for your tea, except this one is a pink piggy bank that pours the water from its snout (and squeals when the water is piping hot). Make sure to use a potholder! Koohii #2 Hot water is a phrase that can mean ""getting into trouble."" This kanji pictures just one of the many meanings of that phrase: it´s water that you get into (with creditors and the like) when your piggy bank is empty! Primitives hot water, water, water droplets, water pistol, piggy bank, sun, day, piglets 茶の湯(ちゃのゆ): tea ceremony 熱湯(ねっとう): boiling water 湯気(ゆげ): steam, vapour 湯飲み(ゆのみ): teacup 湯(ゆ): hot water Kunyomi: ゆ Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 湯 (ゆ)"
"sheep Details Story Dictionary 羊 sheep Heisig's This pictograph shows the animal horns at the top attached to the head (3rd stroke), the front and back legs (strokes 4 and 5) and body (final stroke). * The primitive meaning of sheep can add the further connotations given in the following frame. As we saw with the cow, the ""tail"" is cut off when it is set immediately over another element: ⺷. Note the change in stroke order, as exemplified in the following frame. Koohii #1 Picture of a sheep run over by a steam roller. Must have been a ram, note the horns. Koohii #2 Our Lord and King put on ears and a tail to become a lowly sheep for the slaughter. Primitives sheep, horns 羊毛(ようもう): wool Kunyomi: ひつじ Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 羊 (ひつじ)"	"sheep 羊 画数6 586 Details Story Dictionary 羊 sheep Heisig's This pictograph shows the animal horns at the top attached to the head (3rd stroke), the front and back legs (strokes 4 and 5) and body (final stroke). * The primitive meaning of sheep can add the further connotations given in the following frame. As we saw with the cow, the ""tail"" is cut off when it is set immediately over another element: ⺷. Note the change in stroke order, as exemplified in the following frame. Koohii #1 Picture of a sheep run over by a steam roller. Must have been a ram, note the horns. Koohii #2 Our Lord and King put on ears and a tail to become a lowly sheep for the slaughter. Primitives sheep, horns 羊毛(ようもう): wool Kunyomi: ひつじ Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 羊 (ひつじ)"
beauty Details Story Dictionary 美 beauty My Story A *horny king* (who is *big*) is a sign of beauty Koohii #1 I guess this kanji proves it´s not just the Welsh whose idea of beauty is a large sheep. Koohii #2 A Sheep on top of a dog is NOT a beautiful thing. Primitives beauty, sheep, large, St. Bernard 美しい(うつくしい): beautiful, lovely 華美(かび): pomp, splendor, gaudiness 賛美(さんび): praise, adoration, glorification 美(び): beauty 美術(びじゅつ): art, fine arts 褒美(ほうび): reward, prize 優美(ゆうび): grace, refinement, elegance 美人(びじん): beautiful person (woman) 美容(びよう): beauty of figure or form 美しい(うつくしい): beautiful 美術館(びじゅつかん): art gallery Kunyomi: うつく.しい Onyomi: ビ、ミ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 美しい (うつく.しい)	beauty 美 画数9 587 Details Story Dictionary 美 beauty My Story A *horny king* (who is *big*) is a sign of beauty Koohii #1 I guess this kanji proves it´s not just the Welsh whose idea of beauty is a large sheep. Koohii #2 A Sheep on top of a dog is NOT a beautiful thing. Primitives beauty, sheep, large, St. Bernard 美しい(うつくしい): beautiful, lovely 華美(かび): pomp, splendor, gaudiness 賛美(さんび): praise, adoration, glorification 美(び): beauty 美術(びじゅつ): art, fine arts 褒美(ほうび): reward, prize 優美(ゆうび): grace, refinement, elegance 美人(びじん): beautiful person (woman) 美容(びよう): beauty of figure or form 美しい(うつくしい): beautiful 美術館(びじゅつかん): art gallery Kunyomi: うつく.しい Onyomi: ビ、ミ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 美しい (うつく.しい)
ocean Details Story Dictionary 洋 ocean Heisig's Water . . . sheep. Be sure to keep the stories and key word of this kanji distinct from those for sea. (Frame 500). Koohii #1 This kanji refers to the waters of the Pasheephic ocean. Koohii #2 Remember the story of Jason and the Argonauts from Greek myth? Jason travelled across oceans of water in order to recover the fleece of a certain sheep. Primitives ocean, water, water droplets, water pistol, sheep 洋風(ようふう): western style 海洋(かいよう): ocean 東洋(とうよう): Orient 洋品店(ようひんてん): shop which handles Western-style apparel and accessories 西洋(せいよう): West, Western countries 洋服(ようふく): Western-style clothes Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:	ocean 洋 画数9 588 Details Story Dictionary 洋 ocean Heisig's Water . . . sheep. Be sure to keep the stories and key word of this kanji distinct from those for sea. (Frame 500). Koohii #1 This kanji refers to the waters of the Pasheephic ocean. Koohii #2 Remember the story of Jason and the Argonauts from Greek myth? Jason travelled across oceans of water in order to recover the fleece of a certain sheep. Primitives ocean, water, water droplets, water pistol, sheep 洋風(ようふう): western style 海洋(かいよう): ocean 東洋(とうよう): Orient 洋品店(ようひんてん): shop which handles Western-style apparel and accessories 西洋(せいよう): West, Western countries 洋服(ようふく): Western-style clothes Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:
"detailed Details Story Dictionary 詳 detailed Heisig's Words/speaking . . . sheep. Koohii #1 Trembling from head to hoof from such a traumatic experience, the sheep gives a very detailed worded account to the detective about his wolf attack. ""We need more details Mr. Sheep. Tell us exactly where the baaad man touched you"". Koohii #2 Say! detailed sheep, not like that! DE-TAILED sheep. Got it? Primitives detailed, say, words, keitai, mouth, sheep 詳細(しょうさい): detail, particulars 詳しい(くわしい): knowing very well, detailed, full, accurate Kunyomi: くわ.しい、つまび.らか Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 詳しい (くわ.しい)"	"detailed 詳 画数13 589 Details Story Dictionary 詳 detailed Heisig's Words/speaking . . . sheep. Koohii #1 Trembling from head to hoof from such a traumatic experience, the sheep gives a very detailed worded account to the detective about his wolf attack. ""We need more details Mr. Sheep. Tell us exactly where the baaad man touched you"". Koohii #2 Say! detailed sheep, not like that! DE-TAILED sheep. Got it? Primitives detailed, say, words, keitai, mouth, sheep 詳細(しょうさい): detail, particulars 詳しい(くわしい): knowing very well, detailed, full, accurate Kunyomi: くわ.しい、つまび.らか Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 詳しい (くわ.しい)"
"fresh Details Story Dictionary 鮮 fresh Heisig's Fish . . . sheep. Koohii #1 The freshest fish is caught in the middle of the night while most people are ""counting sheep."" (If you´ve ever been to Tsukiji fish market, you know what I mean). Koohii #2 This one´s easy to remember. The kanji gives 2 examples of foods that should be purchased fresh. To remember which foods, take the first letter of fresh, ""F"", to stand for fish and the final sound of fresh, ""SH"", to stand for sheep: FreSH. It even puts the primitives in the right order. Primitives fresh, fish, bound up, rice field, brains, oven-fire, barbecue, sheep 鮮やか(あざやか): vivid, clear, brilliant 新鮮(しんせん): fresh Kunyomi: あざ.やか Onyomi: セン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鮮やか (あざ.やか)"	"fresh 鮮 画数17 590 Details Story Dictionary 鮮 fresh Heisig's Fish . . . sheep. Koohii #1 The freshest fish is caught in the middle of the night while most people are ""counting sheep."" (If you´ve ever been to Tsukiji fish market, you know what I mean). Koohii #2 This one´s easy to remember. The kanji gives 2 examples of foods that should be purchased fresh. To remember which foods, take the first letter of fresh, ""F"", to stand for fish and the final sound of fresh, ""SH"", to stand for sheep: FreSH. It even puts the primitives in the right order. Primitives fresh, fish, bound up, rice field, brains, oven-fire, barbecue, sheep 鮮やか(あざやか): vivid, clear, brilliant 新鮮(しんせん): fresh Kunyomi: あざ.やか Onyomi: セン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鮮やか (あざ.やか)"
accomplished / plural/delivery Details Story Dictionary 達 accomplished / plural/delivery My Story [Jesus + Sheep + Movement/] *Jesus* moved around with his *pack* of sheep; the catholic *movement* is built, he felt #accomplished# Koohii #1 Dolly (the first cloned sheep ever) grow tired of being a celebrity and escaped from the labs by digging a tunnel. She turned out to be an ACCOMPLISHED escapist, as she managed to dig a road under the soil. /Imagine Dolly performing a escape, like those movies where the main character has to escape from jail. Koohii #2 The dirty sheep had come far down this road and had accomplished many things. Primitives accomplished, soil, dirt, ground, sheep, road 達者(たっしゃ): skillful, in good health 達成(たっせい): achievement 伝達(でんたつ): transmission (e.g. news), communication, delivery 到達(とうたつ): reaching, attaining, arrival 上達(じょうたつ): improvement, advance, progress 速達(そくたつ): express, special delivery 達する(たっする): reach, get to 配達(はいたつ): delivery, distribution 発達(はったつ): development, growth 友達(ともだち): friend Kunyomi: -たち Onyomi: タツ、ダ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	accomplished / plural/delivery 達 画数12 591 Details Story Dictionary 達 accomplished / plural/delivery My Story [Jesus + Sheep + Movement/] *Jesus* moved around with his *pack* of sheep; the catholic *movement* is built, he felt #accomplished# Koohii #1 Dolly (the first cloned sheep ever) grow tired of being a celebrity and escaped from the labs by digging a tunnel. She turned out to be an ACCOMPLISHED escapist, as she managed to dig a road under the soil. /Imagine Dolly performing a escape, like those movies where the main character has to escape from jail. Koohii #2 The dirty sheep had come far down this road and had accomplished many things. Primitives accomplished, soil, dirt, ground, sheep, road 達者(たっしゃ): skillful, in good health 達成(たっせい): achievement 伝達(でんたつ): transmission (e.g. news), communication, delivery 到達(とうたつ): reaching, attaining, arrival 上達(じょうたつ): improvement, advance, progress 速達(そくたつ): express, special delivery 達する(たっする): reach, get to 配達(はいたつ): delivery, distribution 発達(はったつ): development, growth 友達(ともだち): friend Kunyomi: -たち Onyomi: タツ、ダ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
envious Details Story Dictionary 羨 envious My Story A *devil king* (sheep) that *lacks* *water* is destined to be envious of others Koohii #1 A very thirsty sheep, who always lacked water, spends his days watching his fellow sheep (in the farm next door or in another pen) and being very envious of their water. Koohii #2 Envious of the greener grass on the other side of the fence, the sheep looks down in disgust at his own dry grass lacking water. Primitives envious, sheep, water, water droplets, water pistol, lack, yawn 羨ましい(うらやましい): envious, enviable 羨む(うらやむ): envy Kunyomi: うらや.む、あまり Onyomi: セン、エン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 羨ましい (うらや.ましい), 羨む (うらや.む)	envious 羨 画数13 592 Details Story Dictionary 羨 envious My Story A *devil king* (sheep) that *lacks* *water* is destined to be envious of others Koohii #1 A very thirsty sheep, who always lacked water, spends his days watching his fellow sheep (in the farm next door or in another pen) and being very envious of their water. Koohii #2 Envious of the greener grass on the other side of the fence, the sheep looks down in disgust at his own dry grass lacking water. Primitives envious, sheep, water, water droplets, water pistol, lack, yawn 羨ましい(うらやましい): envious, enviable 羨む(うらやむ): envy Kunyomi: うらや.む、あまり Onyomi: セン、エン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 羨ましい (うらや.ましい), 羨む (うらや.む)
distinction Details Story Dictionary 差 distinction Heisig's Wool . . . craft. Koohii #1 This New-Zealand pro-gamer has won many distinctions playing WoolCraft (a massively multi-user game in which the goal is to shear sheep). Koohii #2 Noob players make no distinction between what games they play, whether it´s the geniune thing or a bootleg fake copy. The biggest example of course, would be the legit World of Warcraft and the biggest ripoff there is: World of Wool-craft! Primitives distinction, wool, sheep, craft 格差(かくさ): qualitative difference, disparity 誤差(ごさ): error 差異(さい): difference, disparity 差額(さがく): balance, difference, margin 差し掛かる(さしかかる): to come near to, to approach 差し出す(さしだす): to present, to submit, to tender, to hold out 差し支える(さしつかえる): to interfere, to hinder, to become impeded 差し引く(さしひく): to deduct 時差(じさ): time difference 指差す(ゆびさす): to point at 交差(こうさ): cross 交差点(こうさてん): crossing, intersection 差(さ): difference, variation 差し支え(さしつかえ): hindrance, impediment 差し引き(さしひき): deduction, subtraction, balance, ebb and flow, rise and fall 差す(さす): raise (stretch out) hands, to raise umbrella 差別(さべつ): discrimination, distinction, differentiation 人差指(ひとさしゆび): index finger 物差し(ものさし): ruler, measure 差し上げる(さしあげる): give Kunyomi: さ.す、さ.し Onyomi: サ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 差す (さ.す)	distinction 差 画数10 593 Details Story Dictionary 差 distinction Heisig's Wool . . . craft. Koohii #1 This New-Zealand pro-gamer has won many distinctions playing WoolCraft (a massively multi-user game in which the goal is to shear sheep). Koohii #2 Noob players make no distinction between what games they play, whether it´s the geniune thing or a bootleg fake copy. The biggest example of course, would be the legit World of Warcraft and the biggest ripoff there is: World of Wool-craft! Primitives distinction, wool, sheep, craft 格差(かくさ): qualitative difference, disparity 誤差(ごさ): error 差異(さい): difference, disparity 差額(さがく): balance, difference, margin 差し掛かる(さしかかる): to come near to, to approach 差し出す(さしだす): to present, to submit, to tender, to hold out 差し支える(さしつかえる): to interfere, to hinder, to become impeded 差し引く(さしひく): to deduct 時差(じさ): time difference 指差す(ゆびさす): to point at 交差(こうさ): cross 交差点(こうさてん): crossing, intersection 差(さ): difference, variation 差し支え(さしつかえ): hindrance, impediment 差し引き(さしひき): deduction, subtraction, balance, ebb and flow, rise and fall 差す(さす): raise (stretch out) hands, to raise umbrella 差別(さべつ): discrimination, distinction, differentiation 人差指(ひとさしゆび): index finger 物差し(ものさし): ruler, measure 差し上げる(さしあげる): give Kunyomi: さ.す、さ.し Onyomi: サ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 差す (さ.す)
"don Details Story Dictionary 着 don Heisig's I cannot resist doing this one for you, since it clearly describes donning (putting on) one's clothes as ""pulling the wool over one's eyes."" Koohii #1 A pullover is donned by pulling wool over your eyes. Koohii #2 Someone who is donning a disguise does that in order to pull the wool over your eyes. Primitives don, wool, sheep, eye 落ち着き(おちつき): calm, composure 着飾る(きかざる): to dress up 執着(しゅうじゃく): attachment, adhesion, tenacity 先着(せんちゃく): first arrival 辿り着く(たどりつく): to grope along to, to struggle on to, to arrive somewhere after a struggle 着(ちゃく): counter for suits of clothing, arriving at .. 着手(ちゃくしゅ): embarkation, launch 着色(ちゃくしょく): colouring, coloring 着席(ちゃくせき): sit down, seat 着目(ちゃくもく): attention 着陸(ちゃくりく): landing, alighting, touch down 着工(ちゃっこう): start of (construction) work 着ける(つける): to arrive, to wear, to put on 落着く(おちつく): calm down, settle in, be steady 着替え(きがえ): changing clothes, change of clothes 着せる(きせる): put on clothes 着々(ちゃくちゃく): steadily 到着(とうちゃく): arrival 肌着(はだぎ): underwear, lingerie, singlet, chemise 着物(きもの): Japanese traditional dress 下着(したぎ): underwear 上着(うわぎ): coat, tunic, jacket, outer garment 着る(きる): to wear, put on (from shoulders down) 着く(つく): arrive at, reach Kunyomi: き.る、-ぎ、き.せる、-き.せ、つ.く、つ.ける Onyomi: チャク、ジャク Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 着用 (ちゃくよう), 着手 (ちゃくしゅ), 土着 (どちゃく), 着せる (き.せる), 着る (き.る), 着く (つ.く), 着ける (つ.ける)"	"don 着 画数12 594 Details Story Dictionary 着 don Heisig's I cannot resist doing this one for you, since it clearly describes donning (putting on) one's clothes as ""pulling the wool over one's eyes."" Koohii #1 A pullover is donned by pulling wool over your eyes. Koohii #2 Someone who is donning a disguise does that in order to pull the wool over your eyes. Primitives don, wool, sheep, eye 落ち着き(おちつき): calm, composure 着飾る(きかざる): to dress up 執着(しゅうじゃく): attachment, adhesion, tenacity 先着(せんちゃく): first arrival 辿り着く(たどりつく): to grope along to, to struggle on to, to arrive somewhere after a struggle 着(ちゃく): counter for suits of clothing, arriving at .. 着手(ちゃくしゅ): embarkation, launch 着色(ちゃくしょく): colouring, coloring 着席(ちゃくせき): sit down, seat 着目(ちゃくもく): attention 着陸(ちゃくりく): landing, alighting, touch down 着工(ちゃっこう): start of (construction) work 着ける(つける): to arrive, to wear, to put on 落着く(おちつく): calm down, settle in, be steady 着替え(きがえ): changing clothes, change of clothes 着せる(きせる): put on clothes 着々(ちゃくちゃく): steadily 到着(とうちゃく): arrival 肌着(はだぎ): underwear, lingerie, singlet, chemise 着物(きもの): Japanese traditional dress 下着(したぎ): underwear 上着(うわぎ): coat, tunic, jacket, outer garment 着る(きる): to wear, put on (from shoulders down) 着く(つく): arrive at, reach Kunyomi: き.る、-ぎ、き.せる、-き.せ、つ.く、つ.ける Onyomi: チャク、ジャク Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 着用 (ちゃくよう), 着手 (ちゃくしゅ), 土着 (どちゃく), 着せる (き.せる), 着る (き.る), 着く (つ.く), 着ける (つ.ける)"
"solely Details Story Dictionary 唯 solely Heisig's Mouth . . . turkey. Koohii #1 The mouth of a turkey is used solely for saying, ""Gobble."" Likewise, your mouth, full of turkey, is solely used to gobble it up. Koohii #2 Sadly my mouth gets to taste turkey solely on Christmas Day. Primitives solely, mouth, turkey 唯(ただ): free of charge, mere, sole, only, usual, common 唯(たった): only, merely, no more than 唯一(ゆいいつ): only, sole, unique Kunyomi: ただ Onyomi: ユイ、イ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 唯一 (ゆいいつ), 唯物論 (ゆいぶつろん), 唯美主義 (ただびしゅぎ)"	"solely 唯 画数11 595 Details Story Dictionary 唯 solely Heisig's Mouth . . . turkey. Koohii #1 The mouth of a turkey is used solely for saying, ""Gobble."" Likewise, your mouth, full of turkey, is solely used to gobble it up. Koohii #2 Sadly my mouth gets to taste turkey solely on Christmas Day. Primitives solely, mouth, turkey 唯(ただ): free of charge, mere, sole, only, usual, common 唯(たった): only, merely, no more than 唯一(ゆいいつ): only, sole, unique Kunyomi: ただ Onyomi: ユイ、イ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 唯一 (ゆいいつ), 唯物論 (ゆいぶつろん), 唯美主義 (ただびしゅぎ)"
piled high Details Story Dictionary 堆 piled high Heisig's Soil . . . turkey. Koohii #1 After our pre-Thanksgiving massacre, we piled high all the turkey corpses atop the soil of the farmyard. Koohii #2 During the Turkey Holocaust (this is what the animal kingdom calls Thanksgiving - they have really short memories and thus don´t recall that it actually happens every single year), turkeys are killed en masse, and their bodies are piled high. To keep them from tumbling down, a pile of dirt is piled high right next to them to keep them standing upright so that they will be fresh when it is time to eat them. Primitives piled high, soil, dirt, ground, turkey Kunyomi: うずたか.い Onyomi: タイ、ツイ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	piled high 堆 画数11 596 Details Story Dictionary 堆 piled high Heisig's Soil . . . turkey. Koohii #1 After our pre-Thanksgiving massacre, we piled high all the turkey corpses atop the soil of the farmyard. Koohii #2 During the Turkey Holocaust (this is what the animal kingdom calls Thanksgiving - they have really short memories and thus don´t recall that it actually happens every single year), turkeys are killed en masse, and their bodies are piled high. To keep them from tumbling down, a pile of dirt is piled high right next to them to keep them standing upright so that they will be fresh when it is time to eat them. Primitives piled high, soil, dirt, ground, turkey Kunyomi: うずたか.い Onyomi: タイ、ツイ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
sweet oak Details Story Dictionary 椎 sweet oak Heisig's Tree . . . turkey. Koohii #1 Why is the sweet oak so sweet? Not sure, but to me it tastes just like turkey (with gravy and cranberry sauce!) Now that is sweet. Koohii #2 Sweeter than Shiit~ake? Turkeys gobble Shiitake mushrooms椎茸 off the sweet oak tree. 　http://www.flickr.com/photos/tinyhare/13963627/. Primitives sweet oak, tree, wood, turkey Kunyomi: つち、う.つ Onyomi: ツイ、スイ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	sweet oak 椎 画数12 597 Details Story Dictionary 椎 sweet oak Heisig's Tree . . . turkey. Koohii #1 Why is the sweet oak so sweet? Not sure, but to me it tastes just like turkey (with gravy and cranberry sauce!) Now that is sweet. Koohii #2 Sweeter than Shiit~ake? Turkeys gobble Shiitake mushrooms椎茸 off the sweet oak tree. 　http://www.flickr.com/photos/tinyhare/13963627/. Primitives sweet oak, tree, wood, turkey Kunyomi: つち、う.つ Onyomi: ツイ、スイ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"who Details Story Dictionary 誰 who Heisig's Words . . . turkey. Koohii #1 Do you remember that song where they say ""Who let the turkeys out!? Gobble.. gobble.. gobble""? Koohii #2 [who; someone; somebody] You´re alone when, suddenly, you think you hear someone speaking. ""Who´s there?"", you say, but there is no answer. Then you find out it was only a turkey gobbling. You feel relieved (and ashamed to tell this story). (Based on raulir). Primitives who?, who, say, words, keitai, mouth, turkey 誰(たれ): adjectival suffix for a person 誰(だれ): who 誰か(だれか): someone, somebody Kunyomi: だれ、たれ、た Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 誰 (だれ)"	"who 誰 画数15 598 Details Story Dictionary 誰 who Heisig's Words . . . turkey. Koohii #1 Do you remember that song where they say ""Who let the turkeys out!? Gobble.. gobble.. gobble""? Koohii #2 [who; someone; somebody] You´re alone when, suddenly, you think you hear someone speaking. ""Who´s there?"", you say, but there is no answer. Then you find out it was only a turkey gobbling. You feel relieved (and ashamed to tell this story). (Based on raulir). Primitives who?, who, say, words, keitai, mouth, turkey 誰(たれ): adjectival suffix for a person 誰(だれ): who 誰か(だれか): someone, somebody Kunyomi: だれ、たれ、た Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 誰 (だれ)"
char Details Story Dictionary 焦 char Heisig's Turkey . . . oven fire. Koohii #1 When I put the turkey over the oven fire, it always ends up being charred beyond recognition. I´m not a very good cook. Koohii #2 Char could be any meat over oven fire. So why is it a turkey in this kanji? Because charred turkey is what sticks out most in your mind as the thing that ruined Thanksgiving dinner. Primitives char, turkey, oven-fire, barbecue 焦る(あせる): to be in a hurry, to be impatient 焦げ茶(こげちゃ): black tea 焦がす(こがす): burn, scorch, singe, char 焦げる(こげる): burn, be burned 焦点(しょうてん): focus, point Kunyomi: こ.げる、こ.がす、こ.がれる、あせ.る Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 焦る (あせ.る), 焦がす (こ.がす), 焦がれる (こ.がれる), 焦げる (こ.げる)	char 焦 画数12 599 Details Story Dictionary 焦 char Heisig's Turkey . . . oven fire. Koohii #1 When I put the turkey over the oven fire, it always ends up being charred beyond recognition. I´m not a very good cook. Koohii #2 Char could be any meat over oven fire. So why is it a turkey in this kanji? Because charred turkey is what sticks out most in your mind as the thing that ruined Thanksgiving dinner. Primitives char, turkey, oven-fire, barbecue 焦る(あせる): to be in a hurry, to be impatient 焦げ茶(こげちゃ): black tea 焦がす(こがす): burn, scorch, singe, char 焦げる(こげる): burn, be burned 焦点(しょうてん): focus, point Kunyomi: こ.げる、こ.がす、こ.がれる、あせ.る Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 焦る (あせ.る), 焦がす (こ.がす), 焦がれる (こ.がれる), 焦げる (こ.げる)
"reef Details Story Dictionary 礁 reef Heisig's Rocks . . . char. Koohii #1 Coral reefs are now dying off due to our abuse of the environment and now look like charred stone. For a picture illustrating this, see http://www.nacri.org/images/Hof-dredgingfig8.jpg. Koohii #2 Reefs are often formed from volcanic rock, or ""rock that has been charred"". Primitives reef, stone, rock, char, turkey, oven-fire, barbecue Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"reef 礁 画数17 600 Details Story Dictionary 礁 reef Heisig's Rocks . . . char. Koohii #1 Coral reefs are now dying off due to our abuse of the environment and now look like charred stone. For a picture illustrating this, see http://www.nacri.org/images/Hof-dredgingfig8.jpg. Koohii #2 Reefs are often formed from volcanic rock, or ""rock that has been charred"". Primitives reef, stone, rock, char, turkey, oven-fire, barbecue Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
gather Details Story Dictionary 集 gather My Story Gather the *turkeys* for Thanksgiving. Gather the *trees* for Christmas. In that order... Koohii #1 Hunter-gathers, searching all along the ground for food. They never look up and see the Turkeys that have gathered on top of the trees to hide. Those were some smart turkeys! Koohii #2 Gather the turkeys for Thanksgiving. Gather the trees for Christmas. In that order... Primitives gather, turkey, tree, wood 集まり(あつまり): gathering, meeting, assembly, collection 群集(ぐんしゅう): (social) group, crowd, throng, mob, multitude 採集(さいしゅう): collecting, gathering 集計(しゅうけい): totalization, aggregate 収集(しゅうしゅう): gathering up, collection, accumulation 特集(とくしゅう): feature (e.g. newspaper), special edition, report 密集(みっしゅう): crowd, close formation, dense 集会(しゅうかい): meeting, assembly 集金(しゅうきん): money collection 集合(しゅうごう): gathering, assembly, meeting, (mathematics) set 集団(しゅうだん): group, mass 集中(しゅうちゅう): concentration, focusing the mind 全集(ぜんしゅう): complete works 編集(へんしゅう): editing, compilation, editorial (e.g. committee) 募集(ぼしゅう): recruiting, taking applications 集まる(あつまる): gather 集める(あつめる): get (things) together Kunyomi: あつ.まる、あつ.める、つど.う Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 集まる (あつ.まる), 集める (あつ.める), 集う (つど.う)	gather 集 画数12 601 Details Story Dictionary 集 gather My Story Gather the *turkeys* for Thanksgiving. Gather the *trees* for Christmas. In that order... Koohii #1 Hunter-gathers, searching all along the ground for food. They never look up and see the Turkeys that have gathered on top of the trees to hide. Those were some smart turkeys! Koohii #2 Gather the turkeys for Thanksgiving. Gather the trees for Christmas. In that order... Primitives gather, turkey, tree, wood 集まり(あつまり): gathering, meeting, assembly, collection 群集(ぐんしゅう): (social) group, crowd, throng, mob, multitude 採集(さいしゅう): collecting, gathering 集計(しゅうけい): totalization, aggregate 収集(しゅうしゅう): gathering up, collection, accumulation 特集(とくしゅう): feature (e.g. newspaper), special edition, report 密集(みっしゅう): crowd, close formation, dense 集会(しゅうかい): meeting, assembly 集金(しゅうきん): money collection 集合(しゅうごう): gathering, assembly, meeting, (mathematics) set 集団(しゅうだん): group, mass 集中(しゅうちゅう): concentration, focusing the mind 全集(ぜんしゅう): complete works 編集(へんしゅう): editing, compilation, editorial (e.g. committee) 募集(ぼしゅう): recruiting, taking applications 集まる(あつまる): gather 集める(あつめる): get (things) together Kunyomi: あつ.まる、あつ.める、つど.う Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 集まる (あつ.まる), 集める (あつ.める), 集う (つど.う)
quasi- Details Story Dictionary 准 quasi- Heisig's Ice . . . turkey. Koohii #1 Quasi-modo, the famous hunchback of Notre-Dame wasn´t actually a hunchback at all!! He used a frozen turkey to make a hunch! Koohii #2 An iced turkey is only quasi-as-good-as fresh turkey. Primitives quasi-, ice, turkey Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジュン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	quasi- 准 画数10 602 Details Story Dictionary 准 quasi- Heisig's Ice . . . turkey. Koohii #1 Quasi-modo, the famous hunchback of Notre-Dame wasn´t actually a hunchback at all!! He used a frozen turkey to make a hunch! Koohii #2 An iced turkey is only quasi-as-good-as fresh turkey. Primitives quasi-, ice, turkey Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジュン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
advance Details Story Dictionary 進 advance Heisig's Turkey . . . road. Koohii #1 Why did the turkey cross the road? To advance to the other side, of course. Koohii #2 [re: raulir] Animals on the road: Turtles escape (#283) and Pigs pursue (#539), while the Turkeys advance (looking very formidable indeed). Primitives advance, turkey, road 行進(こうしん): march, parade 昇進(しょうしん): promotion 進化(しんか): evolution, progress 進行(しんこう): advance 進出(しんしゅつ): advance, step forward 進呈(しんてい): presentation 進展(しんてん): progress, development 進度(しんど): progress 進路(しんろ): course, route 推進(すいしん): propulsion, driving force 進み(すすみ): progress 増進(ぞうしん): promoting, increase, advance 促進(そくしん): promotion, acceleration, encouragement, facilitation, spurring on 進学(しんがく): going on to university 進歩(しんぽ): progress, development 進む(すすむ): make progress, advance, improve 進める(すすめる): advance, promote, hasten 前進(ぜんしん): advance, drive, progress Kunyomi: すす.む、すす.める Onyomi: シン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 進む (すす.む), 進める (すす.める)	advance 進 画数11 603 Details Story Dictionary 進 advance Heisig's Turkey . . . road. Koohii #1 Why did the turkey cross the road? To advance to the other side, of course. Koohii #2 [re: raulir] Animals on the road: Turtles escape (#283) and Pigs pursue (#539), while the Turkeys advance (looking very formidable indeed). Primitives advance, turkey, road 行進(こうしん): march, parade 昇進(しょうしん): promotion 進化(しんか): evolution, progress 進行(しんこう): advance 進出(しんしゅつ): advance, step forward 進呈(しんてい): presentation 進展(しんてん): progress, development 進度(しんど): progress 進路(しんろ): course, route 推進(すいしん): propulsion, driving force 進み(すすみ): progress 増進(ぞうしん): promoting, increase, advance 促進(そくしん): promotion, acceleration, encouragement, facilitation, spurring on 進学(しんがく): going on to university 進歩(しんぽ): progress, development 進む(すすむ): make progress, advance, improve 進める(すすめる): advance, promote, hasten 前進(ぜんしん): advance, drive, progress Kunyomi: すす.む、すす.める Onyomi: シン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 進む (すす.む), 進める (すす.める)
"miscellaneous Details Story Dictionary 雑 miscellaneous My Story Only in the miscellaneous department can you buy *9* *wooden* *turkeys* Koohii #1 Newscast: ""Among today´s miscellaneous stories, we have a report on a baseball team that was chased up a tree by a turkey. Stay tuned for this and more!"". Koohii #2 On the left we have baseball and wood, which obviously means a baseball bat. Instead of balls, there are miscellaneous other objects you may hit with it. While beating people may be one favorite use, in this case we see it used for making turkey mash. Primitives miscellaneous, nine, baseball, tree, wood, turkey 雑(ざつ): rough, crude 雑貨(ざっか): miscellaneous goods, general goods, sundries 雑談(ざつだん): chatting, idle talk 雑木(ざつぼく): various kinds of small trees, assorted trees 混雑(こんざつ): confusion, congestion 雑音(ざつおん): noise (jarring, grating) 雑巾(ぞうきん): dust cloth 複雑(ふくざつ): complicated 雑誌(ざっし): journal, magazine Kunyomi: まじ.える、まじ.る Onyomi: ザツ、ゾウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 雑談 (ざつだん), 雑音 (ざつおん), 混雑 (こんざつ)"	"miscellaneous 雑 画数14 604 Details Story Dictionary 雑 miscellaneous My Story Only in the miscellaneous department can you buy *9* *wooden* *turkeys* Koohii #1 Newscast: ""Among today´s miscellaneous stories, we have a report on a baseball team that was chased up a tree by a turkey. Stay tuned for this and more!"". Koohii #2 On the left we have baseball and wood, which obviously means a baseball bat. Instead of balls, there are miscellaneous other objects you may hit with it. While beating people may be one favorite use, in this case we see it used for making turkey mash. Primitives miscellaneous, nine, baseball, tree, wood, turkey 雑(ざつ): rough, crude 雑貨(ざっか): miscellaneous goods, general goods, sundries 雑談(ざつだん): chatting, idle talk 雑木(ざつぼく): various kinds of small trees, assorted trees 混雑(こんざつ): confusion, congestion 雑音(ざつおん): noise (jarring, grating) 雑巾(ぞうきん): dust cloth 複雑(ふくざつ): complicated 雑誌(ざっし): journal, magazine Kunyomi: まじ.える、まじ.る Onyomi: ザツ、ゾウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 雑談 (ざつだん), 雑音 (ざつおん), 混雑 (こんざつ)"
female Details Story Dictionary 雌 female Heisig's This character for female forms a pair with that for male, which we will learn later (Frame 804). The elements: footprint . . . spoon . . . turkey. Koohii #1 Stop | spooning | turkeys. Spoon females. Koohii #2 To become feminine you must stop using a spoon to eat turkey and use a knife and fork like a proper lady. Primitives feminine, Prince, this here, stop, footprint, spoon, sitting on the ground, turkey 雌(めす): female (animal) Kunyomi: め-、めす、めん Onyomi: シ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 雌 (め), 雌 (めす)	female 雌 画数14 605 Details Story Dictionary 雌 female Heisig's This character for female forms a pair with that for male, which we will learn later (Frame 804). The elements: footprint . . . spoon . . . turkey. Koohii #1 Stop | spooning | turkeys. Spoon females. Koohii #2 To become feminine you must stop using a spoon to eat turkey and use a knife and fork like a proper lady. Primitives feminine, Prince, this here, stop, footprint, spoon, sitting on the ground, turkey 雌(めす): female (animal) Kunyomi: め-、めす、めん Onyomi: シ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 雌 (め), 雌 (めす)
semi- / (prepare / criteria) Details Story Dictionary 準 semi- / (prepare / criteria) My Story [Water + Turkey + Ten/needle] For thanks giving, I first *water* down the *turkeys*, then I shoot a *needle* into it. Used in: 準備 (じゅんび) Koohii #1 The anhinga, or water turkey, has a needle-like nose, so really it´s only a semi-turkey http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anhinga. Koohii #2 At the turkey fighting semi-final, turkeys are injected with drugs via needles and splashed with water to help them last the match. Primitives semi-, water, water droplets, water pistol, turkey, ten, needle 基準(きじゅん): standard, basis, criteria, norm 準急(じゅんきゅう): local express (train slower than an express) 準じる(じゅんじる): to follow, to conform, to apply to 準ずる(じゅんずる): to apply correspondingly, to correspond to, to be proportionate to, to conform to 規準(きじゅん): standard, basis, criteria, norm 水準(すいじゅん): water level, level, standard 標準(ひょうじゅん): standard, level 準備(じゅんび): prepare Kunyomi: じゅん.じる、じゅん.ずる、なぞら.える、のり、ひと.しい、みずもり Onyomi: ジュン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	semi- / (prepare / criteria) 準 画数13 606 Details Story Dictionary 準 semi- / (prepare / criteria) My Story [Water + Turkey + Ten/needle] For thanks giving, I first *water* down the *turkeys*, then I shoot a *needle* into it. Used in: 準備 (じゅんび) Koohii #1 The anhinga, or water turkey, has a needle-like nose, so really it´s only a semi-turkey http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anhinga. Koohii #2 At the turkey fighting semi-final, turkeys are injected with drugs via needles and splashed with water to help them last the match. Primitives semi-, water, water droplets, water pistol, turkey, ten, needle 基準(きじゅん): standard, basis, criteria, norm 準急(じゅんきゅう): local express (train slower than an express) 準じる(じゅんじる): to follow, to conform, to apply to 準ずる(じゅんずる): to apply correspondingly, to correspond to, to be proportionate to, to conform to 規準(きじゅん): standard, basis, criteria, norm 水準(すいじゅん): water level, level, standard 標準(ひょうじゅん): standard, level 準備(じゅんび): prepare Kunyomi: じゅん.じる、じゅん.ずる、なぞら.える、のり、ひと.しい、みずもり Onyomi: ジュン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
stirred up Details Story Dictionary 奮 stirred up Heisig's St. Bernard dog . . . turkey . . . rice field/brains. Koohii #1 The St. Bernard dog pounces on a turkey in a rice field and stirs up all the other birds around. See them all gobble gobbling in fear? Koohii #2 Gruesome, but it makes it easy to remember. Here goes: The St. Bernard stirred up a crowd of turkeys and caught one. It bit the head, brains spilling onto the rice field. Primitives stirred up, large, St. Bernard, turkey, rice field, brains 興奮(こうふん): excitement, stimulation, agitation, arousal 奮闘(ふんとう): hard struggle, strenuous effort Kunyomi: ふる.う Onyomi: フン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 奮う (ふる.う)	stirred up 奮 画数16 607 Details Story Dictionary 奮 stirred up Heisig's St. Bernard dog . . . turkey . . . rice field/brains. Koohii #1 The St. Bernard dog pounces on a turkey in a rice field and stirs up all the other birds around. See them all gobble gobbling in fear? Koohii #2 Gruesome, but it makes it easy to remember. Here goes: The St. Bernard stirred up a crowd of turkeys and caught one. It bit the head, brains spilling onto the rice field. Primitives stirred up, large, St. Bernard, turkey, rice field, brains 興奮(こうふん): excitement, stimulation, agitation, arousal 奮闘(ふんとう): hard struggle, strenuous effort Kunyomi: ふる.う Onyomi: フン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 奮う (ふる.う)
rob Details Story Dictionary 奪 rob Heisig's Whereas burglary (Frame 381) implies clandestine appropriation of another's property, robbery refers to taking by force. The primitive elements: St. Bernard dog . . . turkey . . . glue. Koohii #1 Remember the scene in A Christmas Story where the big dogs robbed the family of their Christmas turkey? Well, the following year Ralphie´s mom glued the holiday bird to the kitchen table, just as a precaution. Koohii #2 Don´t let the neighbor´s St.Bernard rob tonight´s turkey....glue it to the table if you must. Primitives rob, large, St. Bernard, turkey, glue 略奪(りゃくだつ): pillage, plunder, looting, robbery 奪う(うばう): snatch away Kunyomi: うば.う Onyomi: ダツ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 奪う (うば.う)	rob 奪 画数14 608 Details Story Dictionary 奪 rob Heisig's Whereas burglary (Frame 381) implies clandestine appropriation of another's property, robbery refers to taking by force. The primitive elements: St. Bernard dog . . . turkey . . . glue. Koohii #1 Remember the scene in A Christmas Story where the big dogs robbed the family of their Christmas turkey? Well, the following year Ralphie´s mom glued the holiday bird to the kitchen table, just as a precaution. Koohii #2 Don´t let the neighbor´s St.Bernard rob tonight´s turkey....glue it to the table if you must. Primitives rob, large, St. Bernard, turkey, glue 略奪(りゃくだつ): pillage, plunder, looting, robbery 奪う(うばう): snatch away Kunyomi: うば.う Onyomi: ダツ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 奪う (うば.う)
"assurance Details Story Dictionary 確 assurance My Story I assure you these crown shaped turkey nuggets are cooked on STONE Koohii #1 To assure that no one will get into the Turkey coop, put a huge rock in the entrance! Koohii #2 You´ve heard the expression ""killing two birds with one stone."" (一石二鳥 is-seki-ni-chou). We´ll, there´s another one that roughly translates as ""killing an entire coop with a giant boulder. "" That´s the method that hunters use when they want absolute assurance of taking home a bird. Primitives assurance, stone, rock, turkeyhouse, house, turkey 確信(かくしん): conviction, confidence 確定(かくてい): definition (math), decision, settlement 確保(かくほ): guarantee, ensure, maintain, insure, secure 確立(かくりつ): establishment 確り(しっかり): firmly, tightly, reliable, level-headed, steady 的確(てきかく): precise, accurate 適確(てきかく): precise, accurate 確実(かくじつ): certainty, reliability, soundness 確認(かくにん): affirmation, confirmation 確率(かくりつ): probability 正確(せいかく): accurate, punctual, exact, authentic, veracious 確かめる(たしかめる): ascertain 明確(めいかく): clear up, clarify, define 確か(たしか): sure, certain Kunyomi: たし.か、たし.かめる Onyomi: カク、コウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 確か (たし.か), 確かめる (たし.かめる)"	"assurance 確 画数15 609 Details Story Dictionary 確 assurance My Story I assure you these crown shaped turkey nuggets are cooked on STONE Koohii #1 To assure that no one will get into the Turkey coop, put a huge rock in the entrance! Koohii #2 You´ve heard the expression ""killing two birds with one stone."" (一石二鳥 is-seki-ni-chou). We´ll, there´s another one that roughly translates as ""killing an entire coop with a giant boulder. "" That´s the method that hunters use when they want absolute assurance of taking home a bird. Primitives assurance, stone, rock, turkeyhouse, house, turkey 確信(かくしん): conviction, confidence 確定(かくてい): definition (math), decision, settlement 確保(かくほ): guarantee, ensure, maintain, insure, secure 確立(かくりつ): establishment 確り(しっかり): firmly, tightly, reliable, level-headed, steady 的確(てきかく): precise, accurate 適確(てきかく): precise, accurate 確実(かくじつ): certainty, reliability, soundness 確認(かくにん): affirmation, confirmation 確率(かくりつ): probability 正確(せいかく): accurate, punctual, exact, authentic, veracious 確かめる(たしかめる): ascertain 明確(めいかく): clear up, clarify, define 確か(たしか): sure, certain Kunyomi: たし.か、たし.かめる Onyomi: カク、コウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 確か (たし.か), 確かめる (たし.かめる)"
noon Details Story Dictionary 午 noon Heisig's With a bit of stretching, you might see a horse's head pointing leftwards in this character. That gives the primary meaning of the Chinese zodiacal sign of the horse, which corresponds to the hour of noon. Note how this kanji primitive differs from that for cow (Frame 260). * As a primitive, this character gets the meaning of a horse. Any horse image will do, except that of a team of horses, which will come later (Frame 2132) and get its own primitive. Koohii #1 Noon is a good time for a ten minute nap (using lie down as nap). Koohii #2 Noon is the hour of the horse. Primitives noon, horse, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse 正午(しょうご): noon, mid-day 午後(ごご): afternoon, P.M. 午前(ごぜん): morning, A.M. Kunyomi: うま Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds:	noon 午 画数4 610 Details Story Dictionary 午 noon Heisig's With a bit of stretching, you might see a horse's head pointing leftwards in this character. That gives the primary meaning of the Chinese zodiacal sign of the horse, which corresponds to the hour of noon. Note how this kanji primitive differs from that for cow (Frame 260). * As a primitive, this character gets the meaning of a horse. Any horse image will do, except that of a team of horses, which will come later (Frame 2132) and get its own primitive. Koohii #1 Noon is a good time for a ten minute nap (using lie down as nap). Koohii #2 Noon is the hour of the horse. Primitives noon, horse, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse 正午(しょうご): noon, mid-day 午後(ごご): afternoon, P.M. 午前(ごぜん): morning, A.M. Kunyomi: うま Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds:
permit Details Story Dictionary 許 permit My Story Keep Your Opinions to yourself until I allow you to *say* them at *noon*. Koohii #1 If horses could speak, you might have to ask their permission before mounting them. Koohii #2 Mr Ed ( a famous talking horse ) was finally at a loss for words when told he would need a permit for public speaking. Primitives permit, say, words, keitai, mouth, horse, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse 許容(きょよう): permission, pardon 特許(とっきょ): special permission, patent 許可(きょか): permission, approval 免許(めんきょ): license, permit, certificate 許す(ゆるす): permit, allow, approve, exempt (from fine), excuse (from), confide in, forgive, pardon, excuse, release, let off Kunyomi: ゆる.す、もと Onyomi: キョ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 許す (ゆる.す)	permit 許 画数11 611 Details Story Dictionary 許 permit My Story Keep Your Opinions to yourself until I allow you to *say* them at *noon*. Koohii #1 If horses could speak, you might have to ask their permission before mounting them. Koohii #2 Mr Ed ( a famous talking horse ) was finally at a loss for words when told he would need a permit for public speaking. Primitives permit, say, words, keitai, mouth, horse, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse 許容(きょよう): permission, pardon 特許(とっきょ): special permission, patent 許可(きょか): permission, approval 免許(めんきょ): license, permit, certificate 許す(ゆるす): permit, allow, approve, exempt (from fine), excuse (from), confide in, forgive, pardon, excuse, release, let off Kunyomi: ゆる.す、もと Onyomi: キョ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 許す (ゆる.す)
"delight Details Story Dictionary 歓 delight Heisig's Again I cannot resist sharing my own associations. If you've ever seen Disney's animated interpretation of classical music, ""Fantasia,"" you will recall what was done there with Beethoven's ""Pastoral Symphony"" (the 6th), and the flying horses that figured in it. The mares are bathing in the stream and the stallions begin to gather. As dusk sets in, the flying horses all start yawning and pair off for the night: a perfectly delightful portrait of delight. Koohii #1 Imagine a spoiled little girl. Her delight when she gets a Pegasus for her birthday... and then like all spoilt little girls she gets bored of it quickly... hence the yawn. Koohii #2 I would be delighted if Japanese lacked the Pegasus kanji. Primitives delight, pegasus, horse, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse, turkey, lack, yawn 歓声(かんせい): cheer, shout of joy 歓迎(かんげい): welcome, reception Kunyomi: よろこ.ぶ Onyomi: カン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"delight 歓 画数15 612 Details Story Dictionary 歓 delight Heisig's Again I cannot resist sharing my own associations. If you've ever seen Disney's animated interpretation of classical music, ""Fantasia,"" you will recall what was done there with Beethoven's ""Pastoral Symphony"" (the 6th), and the flying horses that figured in it. The mares are bathing in the stream and the stallions begin to gather. As dusk sets in, the flying horses all start yawning and pair off for the night: a perfectly delightful portrait of delight. Koohii #1 Imagine a spoiled little girl. Her delight when she gets a Pegasus for her birthday... and then like all spoilt little girls she gets bored of it quickly... hence the yawn. Koohii #2 I would be delighted if Japanese lacked the Pegasus kanji. Primitives delight, pegasus, horse, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse, turkey, lack, yawn 歓声(かんせい): cheer, shout of joy 歓迎(かんげい): welcome, reception Kunyomi: よろこ.ぶ Onyomi: カン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
authority Details Story Dictionary 権 authority Heisig's Tree . . . Pegasus. Koohii #1 I have Eric Cartman of the “South Park” animated series, wearing a cop uniform, riding a wooden Pegasus (such as on a funfair), and yelling “RESPECT MY AUTHORITAH!!!”. Koohii #2 No one has the authority to tie up a pegasus to a tree! Primitives authority, tree, wood, pegasus, horse, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse, turkey 棄権(きけん): abstain from voting, renunciation of a right 権威(けんい): authority, power, influence 権(けん): authority, the right (to do something) 権限(けんげん): power, authority, jurisdiction 権力(けんりょく): power, authority, influence 主権(しゅけん): sovereignty, supremacy, dominion 政権(せいけん): administration, political power 特権(とっけん): privilege, special right 権利(けんり): right, privilege Kunyomi: おもり、かり、はか.る Onyomi: ケン、ゴン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 権利 (けんり), 権威 (けんい), 人権 (じんけん)	authority 権 画数15 613 Details Story Dictionary 権 authority Heisig's Tree . . . Pegasus. Koohii #1 I have Eric Cartman of the “South Park” animated series, wearing a cop uniform, riding a wooden Pegasus (such as on a funfair), and yelling “RESPECT MY AUTHORITAH!!!”. Koohii #2 No one has the authority to tie up a pegasus to a tree! Primitives authority, tree, wood, pegasus, horse, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse, turkey 棄権(きけん): abstain from voting, renunciation of a right 権威(けんい): authority, power, influence 権(けん): authority, the right (to do something) 権限(けんげん): power, authority, jurisdiction 権力(けんりょく): power, authority, influence 主権(しゅけん): sovereignty, supremacy, dominion 政権(せいけん): administration, political power 特権(とっけん): privilege, special right 権利(けんり): right, privilege Kunyomi: おもり、かり、はか.る Onyomi: ケン、ゴン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 権利 (けんり), 権威 (けんい), 人権 (じんけん)
outlook Details Story Dictionary 観 outlook Heisig's Pegasus . . . see. Koohii #1 Microsoft Outlook works about as well as a pegasus that can´t see: they both crash all the time. Koohii #2 I used to hate birds.They´re loud, stupid and worst of all they shit on your head. Used to think birds were the most vile creatures on earth. Then I encountered a pegasus. I was just walking down the road, minding my own business when I happened to look up. I saw it there, braying noisily, ivory wings outstretched like an angel, back leg raised ever so slightly. It dropped a steaming brown load right on my face. It changed my outlook completely. Birds are the second most vile creatures on earth. Primitives outlook, pegasus, horse, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse, turkey, see, telescope, eye, human legs 外観(がいかん): appearance, exterior, facade 観(かん): look, appearance, spectacle 観衆(かんしゅう): spectators, onlookers, members of the audience 観点(かんてん): point of view 観覧(かんらん): viewing 客観(きゃっかん): objective 主観(しゅかん): subjectivity, subject, ego 悲観(ひかん): pessimism, disappointment 楽観(らっかん): optimism 観客(かんきゃく): audience, spectator(s) 観光(かんこう): sightseeing 観察(かんさつ): observation, survey 観測(かんそく): observation 観念(かんねん): idea, notion, conception, sense (e.g. of duty), resignation, preparedness, acceptance Kunyomi: み.る、しめ.す Onyomi: カン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	outlook 観 画数18 614 Details Story Dictionary 観 outlook Heisig's Pegasus . . . see. Koohii #1 Microsoft Outlook works about as well as a pegasus that can´t see: they both crash all the time. Koohii #2 I used to hate birds.They´re loud, stupid and worst of all they shit on your head. Used to think birds were the most vile creatures on earth. Then I encountered a pegasus. I was just walking down the road, minding my own business when I happened to look up. I saw it there, braying noisily, ivory wings outstretched like an angel, back leg raised ever so slightly. It dropped a steaming brown load right on my face. It changed my outlook completely. Birds are the second most vile creatures on earth. Primitives outlook, pegasus, horse, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse, turkey, see, telescope, eye, human legs 外観(がいかん): appearance, exterior, facade 観(かん): look, appearance, spectacle 観衆(かんしゅう): spectators, onlookers, members of the audience 観点(かんてん): point of view 観覧(かんらん): viewing 客観(きゃっかん): objective 主観(しゅかん): subjectivity, subject, ego 悲観(ひかん): pessimism, disappointment 楽観(らっかん): optimism 観客(かんきゃく): audience, spectator(s) 観光(かんこう): sightseeing 観察(かんさつ): observation, survey 観測(かんそく): observation 観念(かんねん): idea, notion, conception, sense (e.g. of duty), resignation, preparedness, acceptance Kunyomi: み.る、しめ.す Onyomi: カン Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
feathers Details Story Dictionary 羽 feathers Heisig's From the pictograph of two bird-wings, we get feathers. * The related image of wings can be added as a primitive meaning. It can also take the form ョョ when used as a primitive, as we shall see in frames 618 and 619. Koohii #1 Pictograph. Easy enough. Koohii #2 These days the biggest concern in airline safety is ICE on the WINGS of the plane. Birds that fly long distances also have to worry about getting ICE on their FEATHERS. Primitives feathers, wings 羽(はね): feather, wing 羽根(はね): shuttlecock Kunyomi: は、わ、はね Onyomi: ウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 羽 (は), 羽 (はね)	feathers 羽 画数6 615 Details Story Dictionary 羽 feathers Heisig's From the pictograph of two bird-wings, we get feathers. * The related image of wings can be added as a primitive meaning. It can also take the form ョョ when used as a primitive, as we shall see in frames 618 and 619. Koohii #1 Pictograph. Easy enough. Koohii #2 These days the biggest concern in airline safety is ICE on the WINGS of the plane. Birds that fly long distances also have to worry about getting ICE on their FEATHERS. Primitives feathers, wings 羽(はね): feather, wing 羽根(はね): shuttlecock Kunyomi: は、わ、はね Onyomi: ウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 羽 (は), 羽 (はね)
learn Details Story Dictionary 習 learn My Story [Feathers {羽} + White] The feather-weight white-belt has a lot to learn... Koohii #1 Imagine a white bird loosing a couple feathers as it is learning to fly. You learn a lesson as you watch it doing so, maybe you learn that “nothing comes for free” or that “one has to be prepared to loose in order to gain”... Koohii #2 Learning is all about adding more feathers to your cap and the most prestigious of all is the beautiful pure white feather you´ll receive when you have learned the kanji! Primitives learn, feathers, wings, white, dove 演習(えんしゅう): practice, exercises, manoeuvers 慣習(かんしゅう): usual (historical) custom 教習(きょうしゅう): training, instruction 講習(こうしゅう): short course, training 風習(ふうしゅう): custom 学習(がくしゅう): study, learning 自習(じしゅう): self-study 実習(じっしゅう): practice, training 習字(しゅうじ): penmanship 習慣(しゅうかん): habit, custom 復習(ふくしゅう): review 予習(よしゅう): preparation 習う(ならう): learn 練習(れんしゅう): practice Kunyomi: なら.う、なら.い Onyomi: シュウ、ジュ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 習う (なら.う)	learn 習 画数11 616 Details Story Dictionary 習 learn My Story [Feathers {羽} + White] The feather-weight white-belt has a lot to learn... Koohii #1 Imagine a white bird loosing a couple feathers as it is learning to fly. You learn a lesson as you watch it doing so, maybe you learn that “nothing comes for free” or that “one has to be prepared to loose in order to gain”... Koohii #2 Learning is all about adding more feathers to your cap and the most prestigious of all is the beautiful pure white feather you´ll receive when you have learned the kanji! Primitives learn, feathers, wings, white, dove 演習(えんしゅう): practice, exercises, manoeuvers 慣習(かんしゅう): usual (historical) custom 教習(きょうしゅう): training, instruction 講習(こうしゅう): short course, training 風習(ふうしゅう): custom 学習(がくしゅう): study, learning 自習(じしゅう): self-study 実習(じっしゅう): practice, training 習字(しゅうじ): penmanship 習慣(しゅうかん): habit, custom 復習(ふくしゅう): review 予習(よしゅう): preparation 習う(ならう): learn 練習(れんしゅう): practice Kunyomi: なら.う、なら.い Onyomi: シュウ、ジュ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 習う (なら.う)
"the following Details Story Dictionary 翌 the following Heisig's Feathers . . . vase. Be sure to contrast the connotation of this keyword with that for next (Frame 510). Koohii #1 The following segment is sponsored by...Swiffer - who make excellent feather dusters for cleaning your vases. Koohii #2 Your feathers would also stand up if you were a hen in a slaughter house and you heard: ""The following!"". Primitives the following, feathers, wings, vase, stand up Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヨク Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"the following 翌 画数11 617 Details Story Dictionary 翌 the following Heisig's Feathers . . . vase. Be sure to contrast the connotation of this keyword with that for next (Frame 510). Koohii #1 The following segment is sponsored by...Swiffer - who make excellent feather dusters for cleaning your vases. Koohii #2 Your feathers would also stand up if you were a hen in a slaughter house and you heard: ""The following!"". Primitives the following, feathers, wings, vase, stand up Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヨク Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
"weekday Details Story Dictionary 曜 weekday Heisig's Day . . . feathers . . . turkey. Koohii #1 Tip: feathers + turkey : This combination of primitives appears six times in Heisig, so it´s worthwhile giving it a name. I suggest ""futon"" (your futon is made from turkey feathers). REF: weekday (FRAME 576) , laundry (#577), leap (#1285), outstanding (#2272), twinkle (#2534), shimmering (#2880). Story: On weekdays you hang your futon out in the sun. Koohii #2 The poor farmer spends every weekday while the sun shines, plucking turkey feathers. Primitives weekday, sun, day, futon, feathers, wings, turkey 火曜(かよう): Tuesday 金曜(きんよう): Friday 月曜(げつよう): Monday 水曜(すいよう): Wednesday 土曜(どよう): Saturday 木曜(もくよう): Thursday 曜日(ようび): day of the week 火曜日(かようび): Tuesday 金曜日(きんようび): Friday 月曜日(げつようび): Monday 水曜日(すいようび): Wednesday 土曜日(どようび): Saturday 日曜日(にちようび): Sunday 木曜日(もくようび): Thursday Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:"	"weekday 曜 画数18 618 Details Story Dictionary 曜 weekday Heisig's Day . . . feathers . . . turkey. Koohii #1 Tip: feathers + turkey : This combination of primitives appears six times in Heisig, so it´s worthwhile giving it a name. I suggest ""futon"" (your futon is made from turkey feathers). REF: weekday (FRAME 576) , laundry (#577), leap (#1285), outstanding (#2272), twinkle (#2534), shimmering (#2880). Story: On weekdays you hang your futon out in the sun. Koohii #2 The poor farmer spends every weekday while the sun shines, plucking turkey feathers. Primitives weekday, sun, day, futon, feathers, wings, turkey 火曜(かよう): Tuesday 金曜(きんよう): Friday 月曜(げつよう): Monday 水曜(すいよう): Wednesday 土曜(どよう): Saturday 木曜(もくよう): Thursday 曜日(ようび): day of the week 火曜日(かようび): Tuesday 金曜日(きんようび): Friday 月曜日(げつようび): Monday 水曜日(すいようび): Wednesday 土曜日(どようび): Saturday 日曜日(にちようび): Sunday 木曜日(もくようび): Thursday Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 21 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:"
laundry Details Story Dictionary 濯 laundry My Story [Water + Day of week (with no day kanji) {曜}] I do my laundry on Wednesday, because that is the *day* of *water* Koohii #1 At the laundry you stuff your large futon (made from turkey feathers) in the machine, thereby causing it to break -- as shown by the water spurting out the side. Koohii #2 When turkeys do the laundry, they put their feathers in water (they don´t have clothes). Primitives laundry, water, water droplets, water pistol, futon, feathers, wings, turkey 濯ぐ(すすぐ): to rinse, to wash out 洗濯(せんたく): washing, laundry Kunyomi: すす.ぐ、ゆす.ぐ Onyomi: タク Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	laundry 濯 画数17 619 Details Story Dictionary 濯 laundry My Story [Water + Day of week (with no day kanji) {曜}] I do my laundry on Wednesday, because that is the *day* of *water* Koohii #1 At the laundry you stuff your large futon (made from turkey feathers) in the machine, thereby causing it to break -- as shown by the water spurting out the side. Koohii #2 When turkeys do the laundry, they put their feathers in water (they don´t have clothes). Primitives laundry, water, water droplets, water pistol, futon, feathers, wings, turkey 濯ぐ(すすぐ): to rinse, to wash out 洗濯(せんたく): washing, laundry Kunyomi: すす.ぐ、ゆす.ぐ Onyomi: タク Lesson: 21 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
"sayeth Details Story Dictionary 曰 sayeth Heisig's Pent in . . . one. The key word refers to famous sayings of famous people, and is the origin for the primitive meaning of a tongue wagging in the mouth that we learned in frame 12. The size of this kanji, a relatively rare one, is what distinguishes it from day. Koohii #1 Sayeth?! Who the hell says ""sayeth""? Doesn´t seem quite right...just like this kanji, which is just like ""day"" but doesn´t seem ""quite right."". Koohii #2 When pent up alone, one sayeth little. Primitives sayeth, pent in, one Kunyomi: いわ.く、のたま.う、のたま.わく、ここに、ひらび Onyomi: エツ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"sayeth 曰 画数4 620 Details Story Dictionary 曰 sayeth Heisig's Pent in . . . one. The key word refers to famous sayings of famous people, and is the origin for the primitive meaning of a tongue wagging in the mouth that we learned in frame 12. The size of this kanji, a relatively rare one, is what distinguishes it from day. Koohii #1 Sayeth?! Who the hell says ""sayeth""? Doesn´t seem quite right...just like this kanji, which is just like ""day"" but doesn´t seem ""quite right."". Koohii #2 When pent up alone, one sayeth little. Primitives sayeth, pent in, one Kunyomi: いわ.く、のたま.う、のたま.わく、ここに、ひらび Onyomi: エツ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JLPT Level: Compounds:"
quandary Details Story Dictionary 困 quandary Heisig's Pent in . . . trees. Koohii #1 I´m supposed to make an enclosure for my tree, but if I use its wood for the enclosure, there won´t be anything left to be pent-in. What a quandary! Koohii #2 You are pent in the garden of eden with one tree, but outside is the whole world to explore! What a quandary -- should you stay in paradise with the tree of knowledge or should you go out into the world? Primitives quandary, pent in, tree, wood 貧困(ひんこん): poverty, lack 困難(こんなん): difficulty, distress 困る(こまる): be troubled, be worried, be bothered Kunyomi: こま.る Onyomi: コン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 困る (こま.る)	quandary 困 画数7 621 Details Story Dictionary 困 quandary Heisig's Pent in . . . trees. Koohii #1 I´m supposed to make an enclosure for my tree, but if I use its wood for the enclosure, there won´t be anything left to be pent-in. What a quandary! Koohii #2 You are pent in the garden of eden with one tree, but outside is the whole world to explore! What a quandary -- should you stay in paradise with the tree of knowledge or should you go out into the world? Primitives quandary, pent in, tree, wood 貧困(ひんこん): poverty, lack 困難(こんなん): difficulty, distress 困る(こまる): be troubled, be worried, be bothered Kunyomi: こま.る Onyomi: コン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 困る (こま.る)
harden Details Story Dictionary 固 harden My Story [Mouth/Pent (closed in) + Old] Fossils are *old* things *pent in* that have hardened Koohii #1 Fossils are old things pent in that have hardened. Koohii #2 Remember Metapod from Pokemon? All it used was harden, which kept it pent in until it grew old enough to evolve into Butterfree.. Primitives harden, pent in, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 固める(かためる): to harden, to freeze, to fortify 頑固(がんこ): stubbornness, obstinacy 固体(こたい): solid (body) 固定(こてい): fixation 固有(こゆう): characteristic, tradition, peculiar, inherent, eigen- 固い(かたい): firm (not viscous or easily moved), stubborn, certain, solemn 固まる(かたまる): harden, solidify, become firm, become certain Kunyomi: かた.める、かた.まる、かた.まり、かた.い Onyomi: コ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 固い (かた.い), 固まる (かた.まる), 固める (かた.める)	harden 固 画数8 622 Details Story Dictionary 固 harden My Story [Mouth/Pent (closed in) + Old] Fossils are *old* things *pent in* that have hardened Koohii #1 Fossils are old things pent in that have hardened. Koohii #2 Remember Metapod from Pokemon? All it used was harden, which kept it pent in until it grew old enough to evolve into Butterfree.. Primitives harden, pent in, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 固める(かためる): to harden, to freeze, to fortify 頑固(がんこ): stubbornness, obstinacy 固体(こたい): solid (body) 固定(こてい): fixation 固有(こゆう): characteristic, tradition, peculiar, inherent, eigen- 固い(かたい): firm (not viscous or easily moved), stubborn, certain, solemn 固まる(かたまる): harden, solidify, become firm, become certain Kunyomi: かた.める、かた.まる、かた.まり、かた.い Onyomi: コ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 固い (かた.い), 固まる (かた.まる), 固める (かた.める)
weld Details Story Dictionary 錮 weld Heisig's Metal . . . harden. Koohii #1 You weld metal in the knowledge that it will harden again. Koohii #2 By welding metal and then subjecting it to refrigeration, it will become very hard by the process known as annealing. Kunyomi: ふさ.ぐ Onyomi: コ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	weld 錮 画数16 623 Details Story Dictionary 錮 weld Heisig's Metal . . . harden. Koohii #1 You weld metal in the knowledge that it will harden again. Koohii #2 By welding metal and then subjecting it to refrigeration, it will become very hard by the process known as annealing. Kunyomi: ふさ.ぐ Onyomi: コ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
country Details Story Dictionary 国 country Heisig's Jewels . . . pent in. Koohii #1 In my country (England) the crown jewels are kept pent-in in the Tower of London. Which happens to be where enemies of the state were once also pent-in (probably for trying to steal those jewels). Koohii #2 Just think of Japan, a country which is like a jewel but historically very enclosed. Primitives country, pent in, king, jewel, ball, earring, drop 国境(くにざかい): national or state border 国産(こくさん): domestic products 国定(こくてい): state-sponsored, national 国土(こくど): realm 国防(こくぼう): national defence 国有(こくゆう): national ownership 国連(こくれん): U.N., United Nations 国交(こっこう): diplomatic relations 天国(てんごく): paradise, heaven, Kingdom of Heaven 国王(こくおう): king 国語(こくご): national language 国籍(こくせき): nationality 国民(こくみん): people, citizen 国立(こくりつ): national 国家(こっか): state, country, nation 国会(こっかい): National Diet, parliament, congress 国境(こっきょう): national or state border 全国(ぜんこく): nation-wide, whole country, national 国際(こくさい): international 外国(がいこく): foreign country 外国人(がいこくじん): foreigner 国(くに): country Kunyomi: くに Onyomi: コク Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 国 (くに)	country 国 画数8 624 Details Story Dictionary 国 country Heisig's Jewels . . . pent in. Koohii #1 In my country (England) the crown jewels are kept pent-in in the Tower of London. Which happens to be where enemies of the state were once also pent-in (probably for trying to steal those jewels). Koohii #2 Just think of Japan, a country which is like a jewel but historically very enclosed. Primitives country, pent in, king, jewel, ball, earring, drop 国境(くにざかい): national or state border 国産(こくさん): domestic products 国定(こくてい): state-sponsored, national 国土(こくど): realm 国防(こくぼう): national defence 国有(こくゆう): national ownership 国連(こくれん): U.N., United Nations 国交(こっこう): diplomatic relations 天国(てんごく): paradise, heaven, Kingdom of Heaven 国王(こくおう): king 国語(こくご): national language 国籍(こくせき): nationality 国民(こくみん): people, citizen 国立(こくりつ): national 国家(こっか): state, country, nation 国会(こっかい): National Diet, parliament, congress 国境(こっきょう): national or state border 全国(ぜんこく): nation-wide, whole country, national 国際(こくさい): international 外国(がいこく): foreign country 外国人(がいこくじん): foreigner 国(くに): country Kunyomi: くに Onyomi: コク Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 国 (くに)
"group Details Story Dictionary 団 group Heisig's Glued . . . pent in. Koohii #1 When you are admitted into a group like the Yakuza, you´re well and truly done (だん) for. You must stick to the group like glue, and you will be pent-in for life, never being able to leave. Koohii #2 A pent-in group will naturally be more cohesive, or ""glued together."". Primitives group, pent in, glue 団扇(うちわ): fan 劇団(げきだん): troupe, theatrical company 公団(こうだん): public corporation 団結(だんけつ): unity, union, combination 座布団(ざぶとん): cushion (Japanese-- square cushion used when sitting on one´s knees on a tatami-mat floor) 集団(しゅうだん): group, mass 団体(だんたい): party of tourists 団地(だんち): multi-unit apartments 布団(ふとん): futon Kunyomi: かたまり、まる.い Onyomi: ダン、トン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 団結 (だんけつ), 団地 (だんち), 集団 (しゅうだん)"	"group 団 画数6 625 Details Story Dictionary 団 group Heisig's Glued . . . pent in. Koohii #1 When you are admitted into a group like the Yakuza, you´re well and truly done (だん) for. You must stick to the group like glue, and you will be pent-in for life, never being able to leave. Koohii #2 A pent-in group will naturally be more cohesive, or ""glued together."". Primitives group, pent in, glue 団扇(うちわ): fan 劇団(げきだん): troupe, theatrical company 公団(こうだん): public corporation 団結(だんけつ): unity, union, combination 座布団(ざぶとん): cushion (Japanese-- square cushion used when sitting on one´s knees on a tatami-mat floor) 集団(しゅうだん): group, mass 団体(だんたい): party of tourists 団地(だんち): multi-unit apartments 布団(ふとん): futon Kunyomi: かたまり、まる.い Onyomi: ダン、トン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 団結 (だんけつ), 団地 (だんち), 集団 (しゅうだん)"
origin/cause Details Story Dictionary 因 origin/cause My Story [Mouth + Big] The show *big* *mouth* talks the #cause/origin# of adulthood (puberty) A *big* *mouth* is the cause of many problems... Koohii #1 We once had a dog with big paws // and oh what great trouble he´d cause // we built a huge pen // to keep him pent in // and stop him from breaking more laws //. Koohii #2 Why is there poop on the kitchen floor? Oh, the cause is that you kept the dog pent in the house all day. Next time remember to walk him. Primitives cause, pent in, large, St. Bernard 要因(よういん): primary factor, main cause 因る(よる): come from 原因(げんいん): cause Kunyomi: よ.る、ちな.む Onyomi: イン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 因る (よ.る)	origin/cause 因 画数6 626 Details Story Dictionary 因 origin/cause My Story [Mouth + Big] The show *big* *mouth* talks the #cause/origin# of adulthood (puberty) A *big* *mouth* is the cause of many problems... Koohii #1 We once had a dog with big paws // and oh what great trouble he´d cause // we built a huge pen // to keep him pent in // and stop him from breaking more laws //. Koohii #2 Why is there poop on the kitchen floor? Oh, the cause is that you kept the dog pent in the house all day. Next time remember to walk him. Primitives cause, pent in, large, St. Bernard 要因(よういん): primary factor, main cause 因る(よる): come from 原因(げんいん): cause Kunyomi: よ.る、ちな.む Onyomi: イン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 因る (よ.る)
"matrimony Details Story Dictionary 姻 matrimony Heisig's Woman . . . cause. Think here of the ""state of matrimony"" and you will not confuse it with other characters involving marriage, one of which we have already met (Frame 581). Koohii #1 Matrimony is the state in which the woman has got you pent in like a dog so that you cannot go after other bitches. Koohii #2 When the woman gets angry, she treats her man like a pent in dog (i.e., puts him in the doghouse). It´s a perfect metaphor for the state of matrimony. Primitives matrimony, woman, cause, pent in, large, St. Bernard Kunyomi: Onyomi: イン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"matrimony 姻 画数9 627 Details Story Dictionary 姻 matrimony Heisig's Woman . . . cause. Think here of the ""state of matrimony"" and you will not confuse it with other characters involving marriage, one of which we have already met (Frame 581). Koohii #1 Matrimony is the state in which the woman has got you pent in like a dog so that you cannot go after other bitches. Koohii #2 When the woman gets angry, she treats her man like a pent in dog (i.e., puts him in the doghouse). It´s a perfect metaphor for the state of matrimony. Primitives matrimony, woman, cause, pent in, large, St. Bernard Kunyomi: Onyomi: イン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"windpipe Details Story Dictionary 咽 windpipe Heisig's Mouth . . . cause. Koohii #1 You can´t breathe very well, so the doc looks inside your mouth to find the cause. ""Oh, I see the cause of your windpipe blockage. There´s a St Bernard penned up in there!"". Koohii #2 Imagine a group of windpipes chatting: “That mouth is the cause of all my problems, you know, always breathing in germs, etc.”. Primitives windpipe, mouth, cause, pent in, large, St. Bernard Kunyomi: むせ.ぶ、むせ.る、のど、の.む Onyomi: イン、エン、エツ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"windpipe 咽 画数9 628 Details Story Dictionary 咽 windpipe Heisig's Mouth . . . cause. Koohii #1 You can´t breathe very well, so the doc looks inside your mouth to find the cause. ""Oh, I see the cause of your windpipe blockage. There´s a St Bernard penned up in there!"". Koohii #2 Imagine a group of windpipes chatting: “That mouth is the cause of all my problems, you know, always breathing in germs, etc.”. Primitives windpipe, mouth, cause, pent in, large, St. Bernard Kunyomi: むせ.ぶ、むせ.る、のど、の.む Onyomi: イン、エン、エツ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
park Details Story Dictionary 園 park Heisig's Pent in . . . lidded crock . . . scarf. Koohii #1 A nice picnic pent up in the park, with your crock pot and scarf (picnic blanket). Koohii #2 There was a homeless man living in a box at the park so I gave him a lidded crock filled with hot curry tied with a scarf... Primitives park, pent in, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, scarf 園(えん): garden (esp. man-made) 園(その): garden, park, plantation 田園(でんえん): country, rural districts 園芸(えんげい): horticulture, gardening 遊園地(ゆうえんち): amusement park 幼稚園(ようちえん): kindergarten 動物園(どうぶつえん): zoo 公園(こうえん): (public) park Kunyomi: その Onyomi: エン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 園 (その)	park 園 画数13 629 Details Story Dictionary 園 park Heisig's Pent in . . . lidded crock . . . scarf. Koohii #1 A nice picnic pent up in the park, with your crock pot and scarf (picnic blanket). Koohii #2 There was a homeless man living in a box at the park so I gave him a lidded crock filled with hot curry tied with a scarf... Primitives park, pent in, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, scarf 園(えん): garden (esp. man-made) 園(その): garden, park, plantation 田園(でんえん): country, rural districts 園芸(えんげい): horticulture, gardening 遊園地(ゆうえんち): amusement park 幼稚園(ようちえん): kindergarten 動物園(どうぶつえん): zoo 公園(こうえん): (public) park Kunyomi: その Onyomi: エン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 園 (その)
"-times Details Story Dictionary 回 -times Heisig's The suffix ""-times"" refers to a number of repetitions. Its elements: a mouth . . . pent in. Hint: you may find it more helpful to forget the primitives and think of one circle revovling inside of another. Koohii #1 Write mouth two -times. Koohii #2 Pretty much a pictograph, see book. Keyword meanings : to turn round, counter for number of times, counter for rounds. Some simple compounds using previously learned kanji : 次回 (next time), 毎回 (every time/each round), 回る (to wander around). Primitives times, pent in, mouth 後回し(あとまわし): putting off, postponing 上回る(うわまわる): to exceed 回収(かいしゅう): collection, recovery 回送(かいそう): forwarding 回覧(かいらん): circulation 回路(かいろ): circuit (electric) 掻き回す(かきまわす): to stir up, to churn, to ransack, to disturb 手回し(てまわし): preparations, arrangements 転回(てんかい): revolution, rotation 遠回り(とおまわり): detour, roundabout way ねじ回し(ねじまわし): screwdriver 根回し(ねまわし): making necessary arrangements 回(かい): counter for occurrences 回数(かいすう): number of times, frequency 回数券(かいすうけん): book of tickets 回転(かいてん): rotation, revolution, turning 回答(かいとう): reply, answer 回復(かいふく): recovery (from illness), improvement, rehabilitation, restoration 今回(こんかい): now, this time, lately 回す(まわす): turn, revolve 回り(まわり): circumference, surroundings, circulation 回り道(まわりみち): detour, diversion 回る(まわる): go round Kunyomi: まわ.る、-まわ.る、-まわ.り、まわ.す、-まわ.す、まわ.し-、-まわ.し、もとお.る、か.える Onyomi: カイ、エ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 回答 (かいとう), 転回 (てんかい), 次回 (じかい), 回す (まわ.す), 回る (まわ.る)"	"-times 回 画数6 630 Details Story Dictionary 回 -times Heisig's The suffix ""-times"" refers to a number of repetitions. Its elements: a mouth . . . pent in. Hint: you may find it more helpful to forget the primitives and think of one circle revovling inside of another. Koohii #1 Write mouth two -times. Koohii #2 Pretty much a pictograph, see book. Keyword meanings : to turn round, counter for number of times, counter for rounds. Some simple compounds using previously learned kanji : 次回 (next time), 毎回 (every time/each round), 回る (to wander around). Primitives times, pent in, mouth 後回し(あとまわし): putting off, postponing 上回る(うわまわる): to exceed 回収(かいしゅう): collection, recovery 回送(かいそう): forwarding 回覧(かいらん): circulation 回路(かいろ): circuit (electric) 掻き回す(かきまわす): to stir up, to churn, to ransack, to disturb 手回し(てまわし): preparations, arrangements 転回(てんかい): revolution, rotation 遠回り(とおまわり): detour, roundabout way ねじ回し(ねじまわし): screwdriver 根回し(ねまわし): making necessary arrangements 回(かい): counter for occurrences 回数(かいすう): number of times, frequency 回数券(かいすうけん): book of tickets 回転(かいてん): rotation, revolution, turning 回答(かいとう): reply, answer 回復(かいふく): recovery (from illness), improvement, rehabilitation, restoration 今回(こんかい): now, this time, lately 回す(まわす): turn, revolve 回り(まわり): circumference, surroundings, circulation 回り道(まわりみち): detour, diversion 回る(まわる): go round Kunyomi: まわ.る、-まわ.る、-まわ.り、まわ.す、-まわ.す、まわ.し-、-まわ.し、もとお.る、か.える Onyomi: カイ、エ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 回答 (かいとう), 転回 (てんかい), 次回 (じかい), 回す (まわ.す), 回る (まわ.る)"
podium Details Story Dictionary 壇 podium Heisig's Soil/ground . . . top hat . . . -times . . . nightbreak. With kanji as difficult as this one, it generally pays to toy with the various connotations of its primitives before settling on one image. Aim for as much simplicity as you can. Koohii #1 A man on the podium announce the rules for the contest: You must fill a top hat with dirt as many times as you can by nightbreak. Koohii #2 Abraham Lincoln used a simple mound of soil for a podium, when he wore his top hat and gave the speech he had practiced many times until nightbreak. But it was so magnificent that no one noticed. Primitives podium, soil, dirt, ground, Churchill, top hat, -times, pent in, mouth, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor 花壇(かだん): flower bed 壇(だん): platform, podium, rostrum, (arch) mandala Kunyomi: Onyomi: ダン、タン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 壇上 (だんじょう), 花壇 (かだん), 文壇 (ぶんだん)	podium 壇 画数16 631 Details Story Dictionary 壇 podium Heisig's Soil/ground . . . top hat . . . -times . . . nightbreak. With kanji as difficult as this one, it generally pays to toy with the various connotations of its primitives before settling on one image. Aim for as much simplicity as you can. Koohii #1 A man on the podium announce the rules for the contest: You must fill a top hat with dirt as many times as you can by nightbreak. Koohii #2 Abraham Lincoln used a simple mound of soil for a podium, when he wore his top hat and gave the speech he had practiced many times until nightbreak. But it was so magnificent that no one noticed. Primitives podium, soil, dirt, ground, Churchill, top hat, -times, pent in, mouth, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor 花壇(かだん): flower bed 壇(だん): platform, podium, rostrum, (arch) mandala Kunyomi: Onyomi: ダン、タン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 壇上 (だんじょう), 花壇 (かだん), 文壇 (ぶんだん)
store Details Story Dictionary 店 store Heisig's Cave . . . fortune-telling. Koohii #1 Try to remember all those stores from Zelda that were inside caves and had fortune-teller like vendors. Koohii #2 The fortuneteller has a store in a cave. Primitives store, cave, fortune-telling, magic wand, augury, mouth 店(てん): store, shop, establishment 支店(してん): branch store (office) 商店(しょうてん): shop, business firm 書店(しょてん): bookstore 売店(ばいてん): shop, stand 店屋(みせや): store, shop 洋品店(ようひんてん): shop which handles Western-style apparel and accessories 店員(てんいん): salesclerk 喫茶店(きっさてん): coffee shop 店(みせ): store, shop, establishment Kunyomi: みせ、たな Onyomi: テン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 店 (みせ)	store 店 画数8 632 Details Story Dictionary 店 store Heisig's Cave . . . fortune-telling. Koohii #1 Try to remember all those stores from Zelda that were inside caves and had fortune-teller like vendors. Koohii #2 The fortuneteller has a store in a cave. Primitives store, cave, fortune-telling, magic wand, augury, mouth 店(てん): store, shop, establishment 支店(してん): branch store (office) 商店(しょうてん): shop, business firm 書店(しょてん): bookstore 売店(ばいてん): shop, stand 店屋(みせや): store, shop 洋品店(ようひんてん): shop which handles Western-style apparel and accessories 店員(てんいん): salesclerk 喫茶店(きっさてん): coffee shop 店(みせ): store, shop, establishment Kunyomi: みせ、たな Onyomi: テン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 店 (みせ)
warehouse Details Story Dictionary 庫 warehouse Heisig's Cave . . . car. Koohii #1 I think of the Batcave. It´s a big cave that Batman uses as a warehouse to store his car, the Batmobile, and all his cool big-boy toys. Koohii #2 Have you ever worked in a warehouse? It´s like a giant metal cave. Watch out for that forklift! Primitives warehouse, cave, car 金庫(かねぐら): safe, vault, treasury, provider of funds 在庫(ざいこ): stockpile, stock 金庫(きんこ): safe, vault, treasury, provider of funds 車庫(しゃこ): garage 倉庫(そうこ): storehouse, warehouse 冷蔵庫(れいぞうこ): refrigerator Kunyomi: くら Onyomi: コ、ク Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 倉庫 (そうこ), 文庫 (ぶんこ), 車庫 (しゃこ)	warehouse 庫 画数10 633 Details Story Dictionary 庫 warehouse Heisig's Cave . . . car. Koohii #1 I think of the Batcave. It´s a big cave that Batman uses as a warehouse to store his car, the Batmobile, and all his cool big-boy toys. Koohii #2 Have you ever worked in a warehouse? It´s like a giant metal cave. Watch out for that forklift! Primitives warehouse, cave, car 金庫(かねぐら): safe, vault, treasury, provider of funds 在庫(ざいこ): stockpile, stock 金庫(きんこ): safe, vault, treasury, provider of funds 車庫(しゃこ): garage 倉庫(そうこ): storehouse, warehouse 冷蔵庫(れいぞうこ): refrigerator Kunyomi: くら Onyomi: コ、ク Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 倉庫 (そうこ), 文庫 (ぶんこ), 車庫 (しゃこ)
courtyard Details Story Dictionary 庭 courtyard Heisig's Cave . . . courts. Koohii #1 When the courthouse caved in, trials had to be held in the courtyard. Koohii #2 Back in caveman days, courts were held in caves. When too many people showed up to watch, they spilled out into the courtyard (the yard outside the cave court ) . 庭 (にわ): garden, yard, compound 庭園 (ていえん): garden, park 校庭 (こうてい): schoolyard. Primitives courtyard, cave, courts, porter, drop, samurai, stretch 家庭(かてい): home, family, household 校庭(こうてい): campus 庭(にわ): garden Kunyomi: にわ Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 庭 (にわ)	courtyard 庭 画数10 634 Details Story Dictionary 庭 courtyard Heisig's Cave . . . courts. Koohii #1 When the courthouse caved in, trials had to be held in the courtyard. Koohii #2 Back in caveman days, courts were held in caves. When too many people showed up to watch, they spilled out into the courtyard (the yard outside the cave court ) . 庭 (にわ): garden, yard, compound 庭園 (ていえん): garden, park 校庭 (こうてい): schoolyard. Primitives courtyard, cave, courts, porter, drop, samurai, stretch 家庭(かてい): home, family, household 校庭(こうてい): campus 庭(にわ): garden Kunyomi: にわ Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 庭 (にわ)
"government office Details Story Dictionary 庁 government office Heisig's Cave . . . a spike. Koohii #1 Some bureaucrats at a government office decided that the tunnels of caves need to get street signs, which are then nailed to the walls of the cave. Koohii #2 In some of the scarier countries, when someone is invited to visit a ""government office"", it´s actually a dungeon where they´re dragged into a cave and nailed to the wall. Primitives government office, cave, street, nail, spike 庁(ちょう): government office 官庁(かんちょう): government office, authorities 県庁(けんちょう): prefectural office Kunyomi: やくしょ Onyomi: チョウ、テイ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"government office 庁 画数5 635 Details Story Dictionary 庁 government office Heisig's Cave . . . a spike. Koohii #1 Some bureaucrats at a government office decided that the tunnels of caves need to get street signs, which are then nailed to the walls of the cave. Koohii #2 In some of the scarier countries, when someone is invited to visit a ""government office"", it´s actually a dungeon where they´re dragged into a cave and nailed to the wall. Primitives government office, cave, street, nail, spike 庁(ちょう): government office 官庁(かんちょう): government office, authorities 県庁(けんちょう): prefectural office Kunyomi: やくしょ Onyomi: チョウ、テイ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
bed Details Story Dictionary 床 bed Heisig's Cave . . . tree. Koohii #1 The two safe places to sleep in the wilderness are in a tree and in a cave. So these can be considered as beds. Koohii #2 (based on mspertus:) The two safe places to sleep in the wilderness are in a tree and in a cave. So to be on the safe side it is best to put a tree in a cave and use it as a bed. Primitives bed, cave, tree, wood 床(とこ): bed, sickbed, alcove, padding 床屋(とこや): barber 起床(きしょう): rising, getting out of bed 床の間(とこのま): alcove 床(ゆか): floor Kunyomi: とこ、ゆか Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 床 (とこ), 床 (ゆか)	bed 床 画数7 636 Details Story Dictionary 床 bed Heisig's Cave . . . tree. Koohii #1 The two safe places to sleep in the wilderness are in a tree and in a cave. So these can be considered as beds. Koohii #2 (based on mspertus:) The two safe places to sleep in the wilderness are in a tree and in a cave. So to be on the safe side it is best to put a tree in a cave and use it as a bed. Primitives bed, cave, tree, wood 床(とこ): bed, sickbed, alcove, padding 床屋(とこや): barber 起床(きしょう): rising, getting out of bed 床の間(とこのま): alcove 床(ゆか): floor Kunyomi: とこ、ゆか Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 床 (とこ), 床 (ゆか)
hemp Details Story Dictionary 麻 hemp Heisig's Cave . . . grove. If it helps, this is the hemp marijuana comes from. Koohii #1 (Image: while Batman is out, Robin is smokin´ a huge doob in a secret corner of the Batcave where he nurtures his hemp grove). Koohii #2 Where is the best place to hid your grove of hemp trees? In a cave, you dope! Primitives hemp, cave, grove, tree, wood, tree2, wood2 麻(あさ): flax, linen, hemp 麻酔(ますい): anaesthesia 麻痺(まひ): paralysis, palsy, numbness, stupor Kunyomi: あさ Onyomi: マ、マア Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 麻 (あさ)	hemp 麻 画数11 637 Details Story Dictionary 麻 hemp Heisig's Cave . . . grove. If it helps, this is the hemp marijuana comes from. Koohii #1 (Image: while Batman is out, Robin is smokin´ a huge doob in a secret corner of the Batcave where he nurtures his hemp grove). Koohii #2 Where is the best place to hid your grove of hemp trees? In a cave, you dope! Primitives hemp, cave, grove, tree, wood, tree2, wood2 麻(あさ): flax, linen, hemp 麻酔(ますい): anaesthesia 麻痺(まひ): paralysis, palsy, numbness, stupor Kunyomi: あさ Onyomi: マ、マア Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 麻 (あさ)
grind Details Story Dictionary 磨 grind Heisig's Hemp . . . stone. Koohii #1 If you grind the hemp you are bound to get stoned quicker. Koohii #2 You must GRIND the HEMP collected in the grove by your cave on solid STONE to make the best ropes. Primitives grind, hemp, cave, grove, tree, wood, stone, rock, tree2, wood2 歯磨き(はみがき): dentifrice, toothpaste 磨く(みがく): to polish, shine, brush, refine, improve Kunyomi: みが.く、す.る Onyomi: マ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 磨く (みが.く)	grind 磨 画数16 638 Details Story Dictionary 磨 grind Heisig's Hemp . . . stone. Koohii #1 If you grind the hemp you are bound to get stoned quicker. Koohii #2 You must GRIND the HEMP collected in the grove by your cave on solid STONE to make the best ropes. Primitives grind, hemp, cave, grove, tree, wood, stone, rock, tree2, wood2 歯磨き(はみがき): dentifrice, toothpaste 磨く(みがく): to polish, shine, brush, refine, improve Kunyomi: みが.く、す.る Onyomi: マ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 磨く (みが.く)
"heart Details Story Dictionary 心 heart Heisig's This character, a pictographic representation of the heart, is among the most widely used primitives we shall meet. * As a primitive, it can take three forms, to which we shall assign three distinct meanings. In its kanji-form, it appears BENEATH or to the RIGHT of its relative primitive and means th physical organ of the heart. To the LEFT, it is abbreviated to three strokes, ⺖, and means a wildly emotional state of mind. And finally, at the very BOTTOM, it can take the form ⺗, in which case we give it the meaning of a valentine. Koohii #1 The four chambers in the heart. In the West, we point to our head when asked about the mind. In the East, they point to the heart. So then, the radical for ""state of mind""…　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　シン　安心　あんしん(peace of mind). Koohii #2 Heart needs three drops of blood to work. Primitives heart, drops, fishhook, heart 一心(いっしん): one mind, wholeheartedness, the whole heart 肝心(かんじん): essential, fundamental, crucial, vital, main 心地(ここち): feeling, sensation, mood 心得(こころえ): knowledge, information 心掛け(こころがけ): readiness, intention, aim 心掛ける(こころがける): to bear in mind, to aim to do 心強い(こころづよい): heartening, reassuring 心細い(こころぼそい): helpless, forlorn, hopeless, unpromising, lonely, discouraging, disheartening 自尊心(じそんしん): self-respect, conceit 下心(したごころ): secret intention, motive 心中(しんじゅう): double suicide, lovers suicide 心情(しんじょう): mentality 心配(しんぱい): worry, concern, anxiety, care 真心(まこころ): sincerity, devotion 野心(やしん): ambition, aspiration, designs, treachery 良心(りょうしん): conscience 感心(かんしん): admiration, Well done! 関心(かんしん): concern, interest 苦心(くしん): pain, trouble, anxiety, diligence, hard work 決心(けっしん): determination, resolution 心当たり(こころあたり): having some knowledge of, happening to know 心得る(こころえる): be informed, have thorough knowledge 心身(しんしん): mind and body 心臓(しんぞう): heart 心理(しんり): mentality 中心(ちゅうしん): center, core, heart, pivot, emphasis, balance 都心(としん): heart of city 用心(ようじん): care, precaution, caution 安心(あんしん): peace of mind, relief 心(こころ): mind, heart 熱心(ねっしん): eagerness Kunyomi: こころ、-ごころ、りっしんべん Onyomi: シン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 心 (こころ)"	"heart 心 画数4 639 Details Story Dictionary 心 heart Heisig's This character, a pictographic representation of the heart, is among the most widely used primitives we shall meet. * As a primitive, it can take three forms, to which we shall assign three distinct meanings. In its kanji-form, it appears BENEATH or to the RIGHT of its relative primitive and means th physical organ of the heart. To the LEFT, it is abbreviated to three strokes, ⺖, and means a wildly emotional state of mind. And finally, at the very BOTTOM, it can take the form ⺗, in which case we give it the meaning of a valentine. Koohii #1 The four chambers in the heart. In the West, we point to our head when asked about the mind. In the East, they point to the heart. So then, the radical for ""state of mind""…　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　シン　安心　あんしん(peace of mind). Koohii #2 Heart needs three drops of blood to work. Primitives heart, drops, fishhook, heart 一心(いっしん): one mind, wholeheartedness, the whole heart 肝心(かんじん): essential, fundamental, crucial, vital, main 心地(ここち): feeling, sensation, mood 心得(こころえ): knowledge, information 心掛け(こころがけ): readiness, intention, aim 心掛ける(こころがける): to bear in mind, to aim to do 心強い(こころづよい): heartening, reassuring 心細い(こころぼそい): helpless, forlorn, hopeless, unpromising, lonely, discouraging, disheartening 自尊心(じそんしん): self-respect, conceit 下心(したごころ): secret intention, motive 心中(しんじゅう): double suicide, lovers suicide 心情(しんじょう): mentality 心配(しんぱい): worry, concern, anxiety, care 真心(まこころ): sincerity, devotion 野心(やしん): ambition, aspiration, designs, treachery 良心(りょうしん): conscience 感心(かんしん): admiration, Well done! 関心(かんしん): concern, interest 苦心(くしん): pain, trouble, anxiety, diligence, hard work 決心(けっしん): determination, resolution 心当たり(こころあたり): having some knowledge of, happening to know 心得る(こころえる): be informed, have thorough knowledge 心身(しんしん): mind and body 心臓(しんぞう): heart 心理(しんり): mentality 中心(ちゅうしん): center, core, heart, pivot, emphasis, balance 都心(としん): heart of city 用心(ようじん): care, precaution, caution 安心(あんしん): peace of mind, relief 心(こころ): mind, heart 熱心(ねっしん): eagerness Kunyomi: こころ、-ごころ、りっしんべん Onyomi: シン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 心 (こころ)"
forget Details Story Dictionary 忘 forget My Story [Bath tub + heart] If you always forget to take a *bath* {亡} , your heart will never love. A *dead* heart forgets everything Koohii #1 You only truly forget her when she has perished in your heart. Koohii #2 To forget means that something perishes from your heart. Primitives forget, perish, deceased, top hat, fishhook, heart 度忘れ(どわすれ): lapse of memory, forget for a moment 忘れ物(わすれもの): a thing left behind 忘れる(わすれる): forget, leave carelessly Kunyomi: わす.れる Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 忘れる (わす.れる)	forget 忘 画数7 640 Details Story Dictionary 忘 forget My Story [Bath tub + heart] If you always forget to take a *bath* {亡} , your heart will never love. A *dead* heart forgets everything Koohii #1 You only truly forget her when she has perished in your heart. Koohii #2 To forget means that something perishes from your heart. Primitives forget, perish, deceased, top hat, fishhook, heart 度忘れ(どわすれ): lapse of memory, forget for a moment 忘れ物(わすれもの): a thing left behind 忘れる(わすれる): forget, leave carelessly Kunyomi: わす.れる Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 忘れる (わす.れる)
selfish Details Story Dictionary 恣 selfish Heisig's Second . . . heart. Koohii #1 A selfish person doesn't care about the next person's heart, only their own. Koohii #2 Selfish lover breaks your heart and moves on to the next lover. (And yawns with a heart of ice at your suffering). Kunyomi: ほしいまま Onyomi: シ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	selfish 恣 画数10 641 Details Story Dictionary 恣 selfish Heisig's Second . . . heart. Koohii #1 A selfish person doesn't care about the next person's heart, only their own. Koohii #2 Selfish lover breaks your heart and moves on to the next lover. (And yawns with a heart of ice at your suffering). Kunyomi: ほしいまま Onyomi: シ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
endure Details Story Dictionary 忍 endure Heisig's Blade . . . heart. Endure here means long-suffering patience. Koohii #1 A ninja must be able to endure the pain of clinging to a ceiling, motionless, for hours at a time, waiting for just the right moment to drop down and thrust the blade of his sword into the hearts of his enemies. By the way, this character is used in the compound 忍者 (ninja) which is why I choose to use ninja as its primitive meaning. Koohii #2 Someone with a razor blade stuck in their heart has to endure the pain wherever they go and can tell no one about it. Primitives endure, blade, sword, dagger, drop, heart Kunyomi: しの.ぶ、しの.ばせる Onyomi: ニン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 忍ばせる (しの.ばせる), 忍ぶ (しの.ぶ)	endure 忍 画数7 642 Details Story Dictionary 忍 endure Heisig's Blade . . . heart. Endure here means long-suffering patience. Koohii #1 A ninja must be able to endure the pain of clinging to a ceiling, motionless, for hours at a time, waiting for just the right moment to drop down and thrust the blade of his sword into the hearts of his enemies. By the way, this character is used in the compound 忍者 (ninja) which is why I choose to use ninja as its primitive meaning. Koohii #2 Someone with a razor blade stuck in their heart has to endure the pain wherever they go and can tell no one about it. Primitives endure, blade, sword, dagger, drop, heart Kunyomi: しの.ぶ、しの.ばせる Onyomi: ニン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 忍ばせる (しの.ばせる), 忍ぶ (しの.ぶ)
"acknowledge Details Story Dictionary 認 acknowledge Heisig's Words . . . endure. Koohii #1 You are given a speech about some serious mistakes of yours, and you have to endure the whole thing, because all you can do is acknowledge. Koohii #2 I never read the ""acknowledgements"" section of books or theses, because they are mostly just boring words that i must endure reading, before i can get to the interesting part. :). Primitives acknowledge, say, words, keitai, mouth, endure, blade, sword, dagger, drop, heart 公認(こうにん): official recognition, authorization, licence, accreditation 認める(したためる): to write up 認識(にんしき): recognition, cognizance 確認(かくにん): affirmation, confirmation 承認(しょうにん): recognition, acknowledgement, approval, consent, agreement 認める(みとめる): recognize, appreciate, approve, admit, notice Kunyomi: みと.める、したた.める Onyomi: ニン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 認める (みと.める)"	"acknowledge 認 画数14 643 Details Story Dictionary 認 acknowledge Heisig's Words . . . endure. Koohii #1 You are given a speech about some serious mistakes of yours, and you have to endure the whole thing, because all you can do is acknowledge. Koohii #2 I never read the ""acknowledgements"" section of books or theses, because they are mostly just boring words that i must endure reading, before i can get to the interesting part. :). Primitives acknowledge, say, words, keitai, mouth, endure, blade, sword, dagger, drop, heart 公認(こうにん): official recognition, authorization, licence, accreditation 認める(したためる): to write up 認識(にんしき): recognition, cognizance 確認(かくにん): affirmation, confirmation 承認(しょうにん): recognition, acknowledgement, approval, consent, agreement 認める(みとめる): recognize, appreciate, approve, admit, notice Kunyomi: みと.める、したた.める Onyomi: ニン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 認める (みと.める)"
"mourning Details Story Dictionary 忌 mourning Heisig's Snake . . . heart. Koohii #1 Remember the tale of Cleopatra? She was MOURNING the loss of her Marc Antony, so she placed the asp SNAKE to her HEART. Koohii #2 You are mourning the death of a relative, and it feels as if a snake had bitten into your heart. -- ""mourning feels like snake-bitten heart"". Primitives mourning, snake, self, heart Kunyomi: い.む、い.み、い.まわしい Onyomi: キ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 忌まわしい (い.まわしい), 忌む (い.む)"	"mourning 忌 画数7 644 Details Story Dictionary 忌 mourning Heisig's Snake . . . heart. Koohii #1 Remember the tale of Cleopatra? She was MOURNING the loss of her Marc Antony, so she placed the asp SNAKE to her HEART. Koohii #2 You are mourning the death of a relative, and it feels as if a snake had bitten into your heart. -- ""mourning feels like snake-bitten heart"". Primitives mourning, snake, self, heart Kunyomi: い.む、い.み、い.まわしい Onyomi: キ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 忌まわしい (い.まわしい), 忌む (い.む)"
intention Details Story Dictionary 志 intention Heisig's Samurai . . . heart. Koohii #1 A samurai´s intentions always come from the heart. Koohii #2 Gentleman always have hearts full of good intentions. Primitives intention, samurai, heart 志(こころざし): will, intention, motive 志す(こころざす): to plan, to intend, to aspire to, to set aims (sights on) 志向(しこう): intention, aim 志望(しぼう): wish, desire, ambition 同志(どうし): same mind, comrade, kindred soul 意志(いし): will, volition Kunyomi: こころざ.す、こころざし Onyomi: シ、シリング Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 志す (こころざ.す), 志 (こころざし)	intention 志 画数7 645 Details Story Dictionary 志 intention Heisig's Samurai . . . heart. Koohii #1 A samurai´s intentions always come from the heart. Koohii #2 Gentleman always have hearts full of good intentions. Primitives intention, samurai, heart 志(こころざし): will, intention, motive 志す(こころざす): to plan, to intend, to aspire to, to set aims (sights on) 志向(しこう): intention, aim 志望(しぼう): wish, desire, ambition 同志(どうし): same mind, comrade, kindred soul 意志(いし): will, volition Kunyomi: こころざ.す、こころざし Onyomi: シ、シリング Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 志す (こころざ.す), 志 (こころざし)
document (magazine) Details Story Dictionary 誌 document (magazine) My Story Look here, this document (magazine) *says* Jesus is in your *heart*. Koohii #1 A will is an important document that contains your final word on how you intend to distribute your assets. Koohii #2 This is quite simple: a document is a set of words describing your intentions. Primitives document, say, words, keitai, mouth, intention, samurai, heart 雑誌(ざっし): journal, magazine Kunyomi: Onyomi: シ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	document (magazine) 誌 画数14 646 Details Story Dictionary 誌 document (magazine) My Story Look here, this document (magazine) *says* Jesus is in your *heart*. Koohii #1 A will is an important document that contains your final word on how you intend to distribute your assets. Koohii #2 This is quite simple: a document is a set of words describing your intentions. Primitives document, say, words, keitai, mouth, intention, samurai, heart 雑誌(ざっし): journal, magazine Kunyomi: Onyomi: シ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
wick Details Story Dictionary 芯 wick Heisig's Flowers . . . heart. Koohii #1 My favorite are heart shaped candles that smell like sweet flowers. The trick is to find one with a thick wick, they give off the most flower scent (but burn the quickest). Koohii #2 Giving a girl flowers is like lighting the wick to her heart. Primitives wick, flowers, heart 芯(しん): core, heart, wick, marrow Kunyomi: Onyomi: シン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	wick 芯 画数7 647 Details Story Dictionary 芯 wick Heisig's Flowers . . . heart. Koohii #1 My favorite are heart shaped candles that smell like sweet flowers. The trick is to find one with a thick wick, they give off the most flower scent (but burn the quickest). Koohii #2 Giving a girl flowers is like lighting the wick to her heart. Primitives wick, flowers, heart 芯(しん): core, heart, wick, marrow Kunyomi: Onyomi: シン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
loyalty Details Story Dictionary 忠 loyalty Heisig's In the middle of a . . . heart. Koohii #1 Their true loyalty exists in the middle of their hearts. Koohii #2 Your loyalty is to what´s in your heart. Primitives loyalty, in, stick, mouth, heart 忠告(ちゅうこく): advice, warning 忠実(ちゅうじつ): fidelity, faithfulness Kunyomi: Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	loyalty 忠 画数8 648 Details Story Dictionary 忠 loyalty Heisig's In the middle of a . . . heart. Koohii #1 Their true loyalty exists in the middle of their hearts. Koohii #2 Your loyalty is to what´s in your heart. Primitives loyalty, in, stick, mouth, heart 忠告(ちゅうこく): advice, warning 忠実(ちゅうじつ): fidelity, faithfulness Kunyomi: Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"shish kebab Details Story Dictionary 串 shish kebab Heisig's This pictograph of two pieces of meat on a skewer, a shish kebab, will help us in the next frame. Koohii #1 Naka naka , ""who´s there?"" shish kebab .... ""shish kebab who?"". Koohii #2 This is a pictograph if ever I saw one. Two chunks of meat on a skewer. Primitives shish kebab, kebab, in, stick, mouth, mouth2 Kunyomi: くし、つらぬ.く Onyomi: カン、ケン、セン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 串 (くし)"	"shish kebab 串 画数7 649 Details Story Dictionary 串 shish kebab Heisig's This pictograph of two pieces of meat on a skewer, a shish kebab, will help us in the next frame. Koohii #1 Naka naka , ""who´s there?"" shish kebab .... ""shish kebab who?"". Koohii #2 This is a pictograph if ever I saw one. Two chunks of meat on a skewer. Primitives shish kebab, kebab, in, stick, mouth, mouth2 Kunyomi: くし、つらぬ.く Onyomi: カン、ケン、セン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 串 (くし)"
afflicted Details Story Dictionary 患 afflicted Heisig's Shish kebab . . . heart. Koohii #1 A person who is afflicted with the vampire disease can only be killed with a sheesh-kebab through the heart. Koohii #2 If you are afflicted with severe heartburn, eating a spicy shish kebab will feel only slightly less painful than having it jammed straight into your heart. Primitives afflicted, kebab, in, stick, mouth, heart, mouth2 患者(かんじゃ): a patient Kunyomi: わずら.う Onyomi: カン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 患う (わずら.う)	afflicted 患 画数11 650 Details Story Dictionary 患 afflicted Heisig's Shish kebab . . . heart. Koohii #1 A person who is afflicted with the vampire disease can only be killed with a sheesh-kebab through the heart. Koohii #2 If you are afflicted with severe heartburn, eating a spicy shish kebab will feel only slightly less painful than having it jammed straight into your heart. Primitives afflicted, kebab, in, stick, mouth, heart, mouth2 患者(かんじゃ): a patient Kunyomi: わずら.う Onyomi: カン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 患う (わずら.う)
think Details Story Dictionary 思 think Heisig's Brains . . . heart. Koohii #1 Think with your brain NOT your heart. Koohii #2 To think is to use your brain over your heart. Primitives think, rice field, brains, heart 思い付き(おもいつき): plan, idea, suggestion 片思い(かたおもい): unrequited love 思考(しこう): thought 意思(いし): intention, purpose 思い掛けない(おもいがけない): unexpected, casual 思い込む(おもいこむ): be under impression that, be convinced that, imagine that, set one´s heart on, be bent on 思い付く(おもいつく): think of, hit upon, come into one´s mind 思い出(おもいで): memories, recollections, reminiscence 思わず(おもわず): unintentional, spontaneous 思想(しそう): thought, idea, ideology 不思議(ふしぎ): wonder, miracle, strange, mystery, marvel, curiosity 思い出す(おもいだす): recall, remember 思う(おもう): think Kunyomi: おも.う、おもえら.く、おぼ.す Onyomi: シ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 思う (おも.う)	think 思 画数9 651 Details Story Dictionary 思 think Heisig's Brains . . . heart. Koohii #1 Think with your brain NOT your heart. Koohii #2 To think is to use your brain over your heart. Primitives think, rice field, brains, heart 思い付き(おもいつき): plan, idea, suggestion 片思い(かたおもい): unrequited love 思考(しこう): thought 意思(いし): intention, purpose 思い掛けない(おもいがけない): unexpected, casual 思い込む(おもいこむ): be under impression that, be convinced that, imagine that, set one´s heart on, be bent on 思い付く(おもいつく): think of, hit upon, come into one´s mind 思い出(おもいで): memories, recollections, reminiscence 思わず(おもわず): unintentional, spontaneous 思想(しそう): thought, idea, ideology 不思議(ふしぎ): wonder, miracle, strange, mystery, marvel, curiosity 思い出す(おもいだす): recall, remember 思う(おもう): think Kunyomi: おも.う、おもえら.く、おぼ.す Onyomi: シ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 思う (おも.う)
grace Details Story Dictionary 恩 grace Heisig's Take grace in its sense of a favor freely bestowed, not in its meaning of charming manners or fluid movement. The primitives: cause . . . heart. Koohii #1 Grace here is a favor freely bestowed, like a good deed. So to remember this kanji, go to the local shelter, find a big dog pent up in a small cage and adopt him. That will cause a warm feeling in your heart! Koohii #2 This kanji tells us that wherever heart is the cause, grace is the consequence. Think of “grace” as a graceful act: something benevolent that comes from the heart. Primitives grace, cause, pent in, large, St. Bernard, heart 恩(おん): favour, obligation, debt of gratitude 恩恵(おんけい): grace, favor, blessing, benefit Kunyomi: Onyomi: オン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	grace 恩 画数10 652 Details Story Dictionary 恩 grace Heisig's Take grace in its sense of a favor freely bestowed, not in its meaning of charming manners or fluid movement. The primitives: cause . . . heart. Koohii #1 Grace here is a favor freely bestowed, like a good deed. So to remember this kanji, go to the local shelter, find a big dog pent up in a small cage and adopt him. That will cause a warm feeling in your heart! Koohii #2 This kanji tells us that wherever heart is the cause, grace is the consequence. Think of “grace” as a graceful act: something benevolent that comes from the heart. Primitives grace, cause, pent in, large, St. Bernard, heart 恩(おん): favour, obligation, debt of gratitude 恩恵(おんけい): grace, favor, blessing, benefit Kunyomi: Onyomi: オン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"apply Details Story Dictionary 応 apply Heisig's Cave . . . heart. The sense of the key word here is of something appropriate that fills a particular need, and hence ""applies."" Koohii #1 In the videogame Zelda, Link enters a CAVE to visit a fairy that will APPLY magic to fill his HEART containers. Koohii #2 [bravo, scottamus!] To apply for the job as a (replacement) Batman, you have to make it to the heart of the cave past all the traps he set up to test you. There, you see a table with the application form on it. Now that you think about it, the ad in the paper did say ""Those who don´t make it to the heart of the cave need not apply."". Primitives apply, cave, heart 応急(おうきゅう): emergency 応募(おうぼ): subscription, application 相応(そうおう): suitability, fitness 対応(たいおう): interaction, correspondence, coping with, dealing with 適応(てきおう): adaptation, accommodation, conformity 反応(はんのう): reaction, response 相応しい(ふさわしい): appropriate 一応(いちおう): once, tentatively, in outline, for the time being 応援(おうえん): aid, assistance, help, reinforcement, support, cheering 応じる(おうじる): respond, satisfy, accept, comply with, apply for 応ずる(おうずる): answer, respond, meet, satisfy, accept 応接(おうせつ): reception 応対(おうたい): receiving, dealing with 応用(おうよう): application, put to practical use Kunyomi: あた.る、まさに、こた.える Onyomi: オウ、ヨウ、ノウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"apply 応 画数7 653 Details Story Dictionary 応 apply Heisig's Cave . . . heart. The sense of the key word here is of something appropriate that fills a particular need, and hence ""applies."" Koohii #1 In the videogame Zelda, Link enters a CAVE to visit a fairy that will APPLY magic to fill his HEART containers. Koohii #2 [bravo, scottamus!] To apply for the job as a (replacement) Batman, you have to make it to the heart of the cave past all the traps he set up to test you. There, you see a table with the application form on it. Now that you think about it, the ad in the paper did say ""Those who don´t make it to the heart of the cave need not apply."". Primitives apply, cave, heart 応急(おうきゅう): emergency 応募(おうぼ): subscription, application 相応(そうおう): suitability, fitness 対応(たいおう): interaction, correspondence, coping with, dealing with 適応(てきおう): adaptation, accommodation, conformity 反応(はんのう): reaction, response 相応しい(ふさわしい): appropriate 一応(いちおう): once, tentatively, in outline, for the time being 応援(おうえん): aid, assistance, help, reinforcement, support, cheering 応じる(おうじる): respond, satisfy, accept, comply with, apply for 応ずる(おうずる): answer, respond, meet, satisfy, accept 応接(おうせつ): reception 応対(おうたい): receiving, dealing with 応用(おうよう): application, put to practical use Kunyomi: あた.る、まさに、こた.える Onyomi: オウ、ヨウ、ノウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
idea Details Story Dictionary 意 idea My Story A good idea will always sound right in your heart. Koohii #1 When you get a good IDEA you get excited and you can hear the SOUND of your HEART, it´s pounding so hard. Koohii #2 Picture someone who´s just had a great idea, but in place of a blinking light bulb over their head, you see a heart thumping with great noise. Imagine the greater the idea, the louder the sound of the beating heart. Primitives idea, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, heart 意気込む(いきごむ): to be enthusiastic about 意向(いこう): intention, idea, inclination 意地(いじ): disposition, spirit, willpower, obstinacy, backbone, appetite 意図(いと): intention, aim, design 意欲(いよく): will, desire, ambition 決意(けつい): decision, determination 好意(こうい): good will, favor, courtesy 合意(ごうい): agreement, consent, mutual understanding 他意(たい): ill will, malice, another intention, secret purpose, ulterior motive, fickleness, double-mindedness 同意(どうい): agreement, consent, same meaning, same opinion, approval 熱意(ねつい): zeal, enthusiasm 不意(ふい): sudden, abrupt, unexpected, unforeseen 無意味(むいみ): nonsense, no meaning 意外(いがい): unexpected, surprising 意義(いぎ): meaning, significance 意思(いし): intention, purpose 意志(いし): will, volition 意識(いしき): consciousness, senses 意地悪(いじわる): malicious, ill-tempered, unkind 敬意(けいい): respect, honour 得意(とくい): pride, triumph, prosperity, one´s strong point, one´s forte, one´s specialty, customer, client 生意気(なまいき): impertinent, saucy, cheeky, conceit, audacious, brazen 意見(いけん): opinion 注意(ちゅうい): advise, pay attention 用意(ようい): prepare 意味(いみ): meaning, significance Kunyomi: Onyomi: イ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:	idea 意 画数13 654 Details Story Dictionary 意 idea My Story A good idea will always sound right in your heart. Koohii #1 When you get a good IDEA you get excited and you can hear the SOUND of your HEART, it´s pounding so hard. Koohii #2 Picture someone who´s just had a great idea, but in place of a blinking light bulb over their head, you see a heart thumping with great noise. Imagine the greater the idea, the louder the sound of the beating heart. Primitives idea, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, heart 意気込む(いきごむ): to be enthusiastic about 意向(いこう): intention, idea, inclination 意地(いじ): disposition, spirit, willpower, obstinacy, backbone, appetite 意図(いと): intention, aim, design 意欲(いよく): will, desire, ambition 決意(けつい): decision, determination 好意(こうい): good will, favor, courtesy 合意(ごうい): agreement, consent, mutual understanding 他意(たい): ill will, malice, another intention, secret purpose, ulterior motive, fickleness, double-mindedness 同意(どうい): agreement, consent, same meaning, same opinion, approval 熱意(ねつい): zeal, enthusiasm 不意(ふい): sudden, abrupt, unexpected, unforeseen 無意味(むいみ): nonsense, no meaning 意外(いがい): unexpected, surprising 意義(いぎ): meaning, significance 意思(いし): intention, purpose 意志(いし): will, volition 意識(いしき): consciousness, senses 意地悪(いじわる): malicious, ill-tempered, unkind 敬意(けいい): respect, honour 得意(とくい): pride, triumph, prosperity, one´s strong point, one´s forte, one´s specialty, customer, client 生意気(なまいき): impertinent, saucy, cheeky, conceit, audacious, brazen 意見(いけん): opinion 注意(ちゅうい): advise, pay attention 用意(ようい): prepare 意味(いみ): meaning, significance Kunyomi: Onyomi: イ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:
cowardice Details Story Dictionary 臆 cowardice Heisig's Flesh . . . idea. Koohii #1 Cowardice is the situation where you get the thought that maybe running away and saving your flesh is a good idea. Koohii #2 Cowardice is when you are not willing to sacrifice your flesh for your ideas. Primitives cowardice, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, idea, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, heart 臆病(おくびょう): cowardice, timidity Kunyomi: むね、おくする Onyomi: オク、ヨク Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	cowardice 臆 画数17 655 Details Story Dictionary 臆 cowardice Heisig's Flesh . . . idea. Koohii #1 Cowardice is the situation where you get the thought that maybe running away and saving your flesh is a good idea. Koohii #2 Cowardice is when you are not willing to sacrifice your flesh for your ideas. Primitives cowardice, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, idea, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, heart 臆病(おくびょう): cowardice, timidity Kunyomi: むね、おくする Onyomi: オク、ヨク Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
concept Details Story Dictionary 想 concept My Story Imagine a *partner* ({相}) whose *heart* was the same as yours! it is SO romantic! Koohii #1 The concept of love is basically two hearts inter-acting as one. Koohii #2 ´´Inter-heart´´ is a new therapy CONCEPT that helps macho guys share their feelings with each other. Primitives concept, inter milan, inter, tree, wood, eye, heart 愛想(あいそ): civility, courtesy, compliments, sociability, graces 可哀想(かわいそう): poor, pitiable, pathetic 構想(こうそう): plan, plot, idea, conception 予想(よそう): expectation, anticipation, prediction, forecast 感想(かんそう): impressions, thoughts 空想(くうそう): daydream, fantasy, fancy, vision 思想(しそう): thought, idea, ideology 想像(そうぞう): imagination, guess 発想(はっそう): expression (music), conceptualization 理想(りそう): ideal 連想(れんそう): association (of ideas), suggestion Kunyomi: おも.う Onyomi: ソウ、ソ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 想像 (そうぞう), 感想 (かんそう), 予想 (よそう)	concept 想 画数13 656 Details Story Dictionary 想 concept My Story Imagine a *partner* ({相}) whose *heart* was the same as yours! it is SO romantic! Koohii #1 The concept of love is basically two hearts inter-acting as one. Koohii #2 ´´Inter-heart´´ is a new therapy CONCEPT that helps macho guys share their feelings with each other. Primitives concept, inter milan, inter, tree, wood, eye, heart 愛想(あいそ): civility, courtesy, compliments, sociability, graces 可哀想(かわいそう): poor, pitiable, pathetic 構想(こうそう): plan, plot, idea, conception 予想(よそう): expectation, anticipation, prediction, forecast 感想(かんそう): impressions, thoughts 空想(くうそう): daydream, fantasy, fancy, vision 思想(しそう): thought, idea, ideology 想像(そうぞう): imagination, guess 発想(はっそう): expression (music), conceptualization 理想(りそう): ideal 連想(れんそう): association (of ideas), suggestion Kunyomi: おも.う Onyomi: ソウ、ソ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 想像 (そうぞう), 感想 (かんそう), 予想 (よそう)
breath Details Story Dictionary 息 breath Heisig's Nose . . . heart. Koohii #1 Your breath brings oxygen in through your nose which is then pumped around your body by your heart. Koohii #2 I think I´ve met my dream girl, but there´s a problem. her breath is horrible! So, do I listen to my nose or my heart? Primitives breath, nose, drop, eye, heart 子息(しそく): son 消息(しょうそく): news, letter, circumstances 窒息(ちっそく): suffocation 一息(ひといき): puffy, a breath, a pause, an effort 利息(りそく): interest (bank) 息(いき): breath, tone 休息(きゅうそく): rest, relief, relaxation 溜息(ためいき): a sigh 息子(むすこ): son Kunyomi: いき Onyomi: ソク Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 息 (いき)	breath 息 画数10 657 Details Story Dictionary 息 breath Heisig's Nose . . . heart. Koohii #1 Your breath brings oxygen in through your nose which is then pumped around your body by your heart. Koohii #2 I think I´ve met my dream girl, but there´s a problem. her breath is horrible! So, do I listen to my nose or my heart? Primitives breath, nose, drop, eye, heart 子息(しそく): son 消息(しょうそく): news, letter, circumstances 窒息(ちっそく): suffocation 一息(ひといき): puffy, a breath, a pause, an effort 利息(りそく): interest (bank) 息(いき): breath, tone 休息(きゅうそく): rest, relief, relaxation 溜息(ためいき): a sigh 息子(むすこ): son Kunyomi: いき Onyomi: ソク Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 息 (いき)
recess Details Story Dictionary 憩 recess Heisig's Tongue . . . nose . . . heart. The sense of breath from the last frame should not be used; it could lead you to put only the nose over the heart and leave the tongue off to one side. Koohii #1 Recess to me is a school break. At recess some kiddies are comparing their latest body piercings. Tongues and noses are nothing special. The new cool is to have your heart done! Koohii #2 Ah recess; tongues slandering, noses being turned up, and beneath it all, young hearts being broken. Dominant in playgrounds is the noise of tongues, which helps me remember that in this kanji tongue comes first. Primitives recess, tongue, thousand, mouth, nose, drop, eye, heart 休憩(きゅうけい): rest, break, recess, intermission Kunyomi: いこ.い、いこ.う Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 憩い (いこ.い), 憩う (いこ.う)	recess 憩 画数16 658 Details Story Dictionary 憩 recess Heisig's Tongue . . . nose . . . heart. The sense of breath from the last frame should not be used; it could lead you to put only the nose over the heart and leave the tongue off to one side. Koohii #1 Recess to me is a school break. At recess some kiddies are comparing their latest body piercings. Tongues and noses are nothing special. The new cool is to have your heart done! Koohii #2 Ah recess; tongues slandering, noses being turned up, and beneath it all, young hearts being broken. Dominant in playgrounds is the noise of tongues, which helps me remember that in this kanji tongue comes first. Primitives recess, tongue, thousand, mouth, nose, drop, eye, heart 休憩(きゅうけい): rest, break, recess, intermission Kunyomi: いこ.い、いこ.う Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 憩い (いこ.い), 憩う (いこ.う)
favor Details Story Dictionary 恵 favor Heisig's Ten . . . fields (or: needle . . . brains) . . . heart. Koohii #1 Too easy. Imagine the Wizard of OZ. There, the three heroes asked the Wizard for three FAVORS: the lion wanted courage of TEN men, the scarecrow wanted a BRAIN, and the tin man wanted a HEART. Ok, the lion bit is stretching but you have it memorized now, so who cares? Koohii #2 Do yourself a favor and take ten minutes to think about your decison...　RTK2:　エ　知恵　ちえ(wisdom)　　　ゴ　互恵　ごけい(reciprocal). Primitives favor, ten, needle, rice field, brains, heart 恵み(めぐみ): blessing 恵む(めぐむ): to bless, to show mercy to 恩恵(おんけい): grace, favor, blessing, benefit 知恵(ちえ): wisdom, wit, sagacity, sense, intelligence, advice 恵まれる(めぐまれる): be blessed with, be rich in Kunyomi: めぐ.む、めぐ.み Onyomi: ケイ、エ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 恵贈 (けいぞう), 恵与 (けいよ), 恩恵 (おんけい), 恵む (めぐ.む)	favor 恵 画数10 659 Details Story Dictionary 恵 favor Heisig's Ten . . . fields (or: needle . . . brains) . . . heart. Koohii #1 Too easy. Imagine the Wizard of OZ. There, the three heroes asked the Wizard for three FAVORS: the lion wanted courage of TEN men, the scarecrow wanted a BRAIN, and the tin man wanted a HEART. Ok, the lion bit is stretching but you have it memorized now, so who cares? Koohii #2 Do yourself a favor and take ten minutes to think about your decison...　RTK2:　エ　知恵　ちえ(wisdom)　　　ゴ　互恵　ごけい(reciprocal). Primitives favor, ten, needle, rice field, brains, heart 恵み(めぐみ): blessing 恵む(めぐむ): to bless, to show mercy to 恩恵(おんけい): grace, favor, blessing, benefit 知恵(ちえ): wisdom, wit, sagacity, sense, intelligence, advice 恵まれる(めぐまれる): be blessed with, be rich in Kunyomi: めぐ.む、めぐ.み Onyomi: ケイ、エ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 恵贈 (けいぞう), 恵与 (けいよ), 恩恵 (おんけい), 恵む (めぐ.む)
"fear Details Story Dictionary 恐 fear Heisig's Craft . . . mediocre . . . heart. Koohii #1 If your heart surgeon is mediocre in his craft, you have plenty of reason to fear. (""Oops, I think I left my scissors in there""). Koohii #2 My deep dark fear at the bottom of my heart is that I am mediocre at my craft. Primitives fear, barge, craft, mediocre, drop, wind, heart 恐らく(おそらく): perhaps 恐れ(おそれ): fear, horror 恐れ入る(おそれいる): to be filled with awe, to feel small, to be amazed, to be surprised, to be disconcerted, to be sorry, to be grateful, to be defeated, to confess guilt 恐れる(おそれる): to fear, be afraid of 恐ろしい(おそろしい): terrible, dreadful 恐縮(きょうしゅく): shame, very kind of you, sorry to trouble 恐怖(きょうふ): be afraid, dread, dismay, terror Kunyomi: おそ.れる、おそ.る、おそ.ろしい、こわ.い、こわ.がる Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 恐れる (おそ.れる), 恐ろしい (おそ.ろしい)"	"fear 恐 画数10 660 Details Story Dictionary 恐 fear Heisig's Craft . . . mediocre . . . heart. Koohii #1 If your heart surgeon is mediocre in his craft, you have plenty of reason to fear. (""Oops, I think I left my scissors in there""). Koohii #2 My deep dark fear at the bottom of my heart is that I am mediocre at my craft. Primitives fear, barge, craft, mediocre, drop, wind, heart 恐らく(おそらく): perhaps 恐れ(おそれ): fear, horror 恐れ入る(おそれいる): to be filled with awe, to feel small, to be amazed, to be surprised, to be disconcerted, to be sorry, to be grateful, to be defeated, to confess guilt 恐れる(おそれる): to fear, be afraid of 恐ろしい(おそろしい): terrible, dreadful 恐縮(きょうしゅく): shame, very kind of you, sorry to trouble 恐怖(きょうふ): be afraid, dread, dismay, terror Kunyomi: おそ.れる、おそ.る、おそ.ろしい、こわ.い、こわ.がる Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 恐れる (おそ.れる), 恐ろしい (おそ.ろしい)"
beguile (be misguided or tempted Details Story Dictionary 惑 beguile (be misguided or tempted My Story a certain {或} heart {心} is #uncertain#. Don't mistake with {感} Koohii #1 She was beguiled/mislead by his charm: at the party he kissed her on the mouth, they did it on the floor and thus he stole her heart. Poor girl! Koohii #2 The same cowboy from frame # 356 (elements mouth, floor and fiesta), kisses the floor with his mouth, once again, before going to the fiesta. There, he uses his good looks to beguile women (gets them to buy him drinks or such), by playing with their hearts. Primitives beguile, a, pope, fiesta, mouth, one, floor, heart 疑惑(ぎわく): doubt, misgivings, distrust, suspicion 誘惑(ゆうわく): temptation, allurement, lure 惑星(わくせい): planet 迷惑(めいわく): trouble, bother, annoyance Kunyomi: まど.う Onyomi: ワク Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 惑う (まど.う)	beguile (be misguided or tempted 惑 画数12 661 Details Story Dictionary 惑 beguile (be misguided or tempted My Story a certain {或} heart {心} is #uncertain#. Don't mistake with {感} Koohii #1 She was beguiled/mislead by his charm: at the party he kissed her on the mouth, they did it on the floor and thus he stole her heart. Poor girl! Koohii #2 The same cowboy from frame # 356 (elements mouth, floor and fiesta), kisses the floor with his mouth, once again, before going to the fiesta. There, he uses his good looks to beguile women (gets them to buy him drinks or such), by playing with their hearts. Primitives beguile, a, pope, fiesta, mouth, one, floor, heart 疑惑(ぎわく): doubt, misgivings, distrust, suspicion 誘惑(ゆうわく): temptation, allurement, lure 惑星(わくせい): planet 迷惑(めいわく): trouble, bother, annoyance Kunyomi: まど.う Onyomi: ワク Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 惑う (まど.う)
emotion Details Story Dictionary 感 emotion Heisig's Mouths . . . marching . . . heart. Koohii #1 Emotion is a march of mouths inside your heart telling you what to feel. Koohii #2 Strong EMOTIONS don´t stay hidden. They march right out of one´s heart (below) and out one´s mouth (shouted, snarled, or gently whispered - depending on exactly what kind of emotion it is!). Primitives emotion, march, mouth, heart 感慨(かんがい): strong feelings, deep emotion 感触(かんしょく): sense of touch, feeling, sensation 感染(かんせん): infection, contagion 感度(かんど): sensitivity, severity (quake) 感無量(かんむりょう): deep feeling, inexpressible feeling, filled with emotion 共感(きょうかん): sympathy, response 直感(ちょっかん): intuition 痛感(つうかん): feeling keenly, fully realizing 同感(どうかん): agreement, same opinion, same feeling, sympathy, concurrence 鈍感(どんかん): thickheadedness, stolidity 反感(はんかん): antipathy, revolt, animosity 敏感(びんかん): sensibility, susceptibility, sensitive (to), well attuned to 予感(よかん): presentiment, premonition 感覚(かんかく): sense, sensation 感激(かんげき): deep emotion, impression, inspiration 感じ(かんじ): feeling, sense, impression 感謝(かんしゃ): thanks, gratitude 感情(かんじょう): emotion(s), feeling(s), sentiment 感じる(かんじる): feel, sense, experience 感心(かんしん): admiration, Well done! 感ずる(かんずる): feel, sense 感想(かんそう): impressions, thoughts 感動(かんどう): being deeply moved, deep emotion, excitement, impression 実感(じっかん): feelings (actual, true) Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	emotion 感 画数13 662 Details Story Dictionary 感 emotion Heisig's Mouths . . . marching . . . heart. Koohii #1 Emotion is a march of mouths inside your heart telling you what to feel. Koohii #2 Strong EMOTIONS don´t stay hidden. They march right out of one´s heart (below) and out one´s mouth (shouted, snarled, or gently whispered - depending on exactly what kind of emotion it is!). Primitives emotion, march, mouth, heart 感慨(かんがい): strong feelings, deep emotion 感触(かんしょく): sense of touch, feeling, sensation 感染(かんせん): infection, contagion 感度(かんど): sensitivity, severity (quake) 感無量(かんむりょう): deep feeling, inexpressible feeling, filled with emotion 共感(きょうかん): sympathy, response 直感(ちょっかん): intuition 痛感(つうかん): feeling keenly, fully realizing 同感(どうかん): agreement, same opinion, same feeling, sympathy, concurrence 鈍感(どんかん): thickheadedness, stolidity 反感(はんかん): antipathy, revolt, animosity 敏感(びんかん): sensibility, susceptibility, sensitive (to), well attuned to 予感(よかん): presentiment, premonition 感覚(かんかく): sense, sensation 感激(かんげき): deep emotion, impression, inspiration 感じ(かんじ): feeling, sense, impression 感謝(かんしゃ): thanks, gratitude 感情(かんじょう): emotion(s), feeling(s), sentiment 感じる(かんじる): feel, sense, experience 感心(かんしん): admiration, Well done! 感ずる(かんずる): feel, sense 感想(かんそう): impressions, thoughts 感動(かんどう): being deeply moved, deep emotion, excitement, impression 実感(じっかん): feelings (actual, true) Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
melancholy Details Story Dictionary 憂 melancholy My Story *100* *mustaches*, with *each* *heart* are grieving in melancholy. Koohii #1 Melancholy makes me think of Hamlet cause he was so ´emo´. In order to play up his feelings he bares his head and holds his crown over his heart then walks (on walking legs) around the palace making everyone see how melancholy he is. What a wuss. Koohii #2 This is an image of the crucifixion. Jesus is on the cross. His crown of thorns has slipped down and is around his neck, right between his head and his heart. His walking legs can be seen dangling from the cross as well. How MELANCHOLY! Primitives melancholy, summer, head, page, crown, heart, walking legs 憂鬱(ゆううつ): depression, melancholy, dejection, gloom Kunyomi: うれ.える、うれ.い、う.い、う.き Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 憂い (う.い), 憂い (うれ.い), 憂える (うれ.える)	melancholy 憂 画数15 663 Details Story Dictionary 憂 melancholy My Story *100* *mustaches*, with *each* *heart* are grieving in melancholy. Koohii #1 Melancholy makes me think of Hamlet cause he was so ´emo´. In order to play up his feelings he bares his head and holds his crown over his heart then walks (on walking legs) around the palace making everyone see how melancholy he is. What a wuss. Koohii #2 This is an image of the crucifixion. Jesus is on the cross. His crown of thorns has slipped down and is around his neck, right between his head and his heart. His walking legs can be seen dangling from the cross as well. How MELANCHOLY! Primitives melancholy, summer, head, page, crown, heart, walking legs 憂鬱(ゆううつ): depression, melancholy, dejection, gloom Kunyomi: うれ.える、うれ.い、う.い、う.き Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 憂い (う.い), 憂い (うれ.い), 憂える (うれ.える)
widow Details Story Dictionary 寡 widow Heisig's House . . . head . . . dagger. Immediately we get another instance of a very odd exception. Notice how the final stroke of the head is lengthened, giving the final two strokes a chance to stretch out and make room for the dagger that fits in beneath. Koohii #1 The new widow sits in the house, her head in her lap (the extended stroke), her dagger in her husband. Koohii #2 The house´s head, her husband, was murdered with a dagger. You can still see the drops of blood above the dagger. She is now a widow. Primitives widow, house, head, page, animal legs, eight, sword, dagger Kunyomi: Onyomi: カ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	widow 寡 画数14 664 Details Story Dictionary 寡 widow Heisig's House . . . head . . . dagger. Immediately we get another instance of a very odd exception. Notice how the final stroke of the head is lengthened, giving the final two strokes a chance to stretch out and make room for the dagger that fits in beneath. Koohii #1 The new widow sits in the house, her head in her lap (the extended stroke), her dagger in her husband. Koohii #2 The house´s head, her husband, was murdered with a dagger. You can still see the drops of blood above the dagger. She is now a widow. Primitives widow, house, head, page, animal legs, eight, sword, dagger Kunyomi: Onyomi: カ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"busy Details Story Dictionary 忙 busy Heisig's State of mind . . . perish. Koohii #1 Busy (as in ""occupied"") means a state of mind where all other thoughts are perished. Koohii #2 ^^^Make the ""state of mind"" primitive Data (from Star Trek) instead right now and save yourself the headache; ´state of mind´ is too vague! (Data can stay so busy as not to sleep without dying. He´s a robot). Primitives busy, Freud, state of mind, deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook 多忙(たぼう): busy, pressure of work 忙しい(いそがしい): busy, irritated Kunyomi: いそが.しい、せわ.しい、おそ.れる、うれえるさま Onyomi: ボウ、モウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 忙しい (いそが.しい)"	"busy 忙 画数6 665 Details Story Dictionary 忙 busy Heisig's State of mind . . . perish. Koohii #1 Busy (as in ""occupied"") means a state of mind where all other thoughts are perished. Koohii #2 ^^^Make the ""state of mind"" primitive Data (from Star Trek) instead right now and save yourself the headache; ´state of mind´ is too vague! (Data can stay so busy as not to sleep without dying. He´s a robot). Primitives busy, Freud, state of mind, deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook 多忙(たぼう): busy, pressure of work 忙しい(いそがしい): busy, irritated Kunyomi: いそが.しい、せわ.しい、おそ.れる、うれえるさま Onyomi: ボウ、モウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 忙しい (いそが.しい)"
ecstasy Details Story Dictionary 悦 ecstasy Heisig's State of mind . . . devil. Koohii #1 ECSTASY alters our STATE OF MIND and makes us DEVILS. Koohii #2 The state of mind that horny teenagers are looking for. Primitives ecstasy, Freud, state of mind, devil, horns, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs Kunyomi: よろこ.ぶ、よろこ.ばす Onyomi: エツ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	ecstasy 悦 画数10 666 Details Story Dictionary 悦 ecstasy Heisig's State of mind . . . devil. Koohii #1 ECSTASY alters our STATE OF MIND and makes us DEVILS. Koohii #2 The state of mind that horny teenagers are looking for. Primitives ecstasy, Freud, state of mind, devil, horns, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs Kunyomi: よろこ.ぶ、よろこ.ばす Onyomi: エツ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
constancy Details Story Dictionary 恒 constancy Heisig's State of mind . . . span. Koohii #1 Constancy is holding the same state of mind over a long span of time. (tweaking PepeSeco and mspertus). Koohii #2 Data is the epitome of constancy. As a robot, his consistency spans the entire day. Primitives constancy, Freud, state of mind, span, one, ceiling, sun, day, one, floor, one Kunyomi: つね、つねに Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	constancy 恒 画数9 667 Details Story Dictionary 恒 constancy Heisig's State of mind . . . span. Koohii #1 Constancy is holding the same state of mind over a long span of time. (tweaking PepeSeco and mspertus). Koohii #2 Data is the epitome of constancy. As a robot, his consistency spans the entire day. Primitives constancy, Freud, state of mind, span, one, ceiling, sun, day, one, floor, one Kunyomi: つね、つねに Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
lament Details Story Dictionary 悼 lament Heisig's To keep this character distinct from others of similar connotation, one need only think of the Prophet Jeremiah whose poetry gave an eminence to the state of mind we call lamentation. Koohii #1 When the world´s most eminent magician died, everyone´s state of mind became that of lamentation. He was buried with his famous sun-flower wand in his hand. Koohii #2 Data laments that he could never see his eminent father, his creator, ever again. He paints a picture of his father, that looks like a sunflower in the shape of a magic wand. Primitives lament, Freud, state of mind, eminent, magic wand, augury, sun, day, ten, needle Kunyomi: いた.む Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 悼む (いた.む)	lament 悼 画数11 668 Details Story Dictionary 悼 lament Heisig's To keep this character distinct from others of similar connotation, one need only think of the Prophet Jeremiah whose poetry gave an eminence to the state of mind we call lamentation. Koohii #1 When the world´s most eminent magician died, everyone´s state of mind became that of lamentation. He was buried with his famous sun-flower wand in his hand. Koohii #2 Data laments that he could never see his eminent father, his creator, ever again. He paints a picture of his father, that looks like a sunflower in the shape of a magic wand. Primitives lament, Freud, state of mind, eminent, magic wand, augury, sun, day, ten, needle Kunyomi: いた.む Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 悼む (いた.む)
"enlightenment Details Story Dictionary 悟 enlightenment Heisig's I know of an Indian religious sect which teaches that enlightenment is to be had by covering the eyes with one's index fingers, the ears with the thumbs, and the mouth with the little fingers. While these differ a bit from the five holes that we used to represent the ""I"" (frame 17), the idea of achieving a special state of mind by covering those five places can help you learn this kanji. You might try the position out while you are learning this character. Koohii #1 Enlightenment is a state of mind that goes beyond the five senses. Koohii #2 Data finds enlightenment when he discovers the answer to the question, ""Who am I?"". (Image: Data meditating in a sitting lotus position). Primitives enlightenment, Freud, state of mind, I, five, mouth 悟る(さとる): to attain enlightenment, to perceive, to understand, to discern 覚悟(かくご): resolution, resignation, readiness, preparedness Kunyomi: さと.る Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 悟る (さと.る)"	"enlightenment 悟 画数10 669 Details Story Dictionary 悟 enlightenment Heisig's I know of an Indian religious sect which teaches that enlightenment is to be had by covering the eyes with one's index fingers, the ears with the thumbs, and the mouth with the little fingers. While these differ a bit from the five holes that we used to represent the ""I"" (frame 17), the idea of achieving a special state of mind by covering those five places can help you learn this kanji. You might try the position out while you are learning this character. Koohii #1 Enlightenment is a state of mind that goes beyond the five senses. Koohii #2 Data finds enlightenment when he discovers the answer to the question, ""Who am I?"". (Image: Data meditating in a sitting lotus position). Primitives enlightenment, Freud, state of mind, I, five, mouth 悟る(さとる): to attain enlightenment, to perceive, to understand, to discern 覚悟(かくご): resolution, resignation, readiness, preparedness Kunyomi: さと.る Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 悟る (さと.る)"
dreadful Details Story Dictionary 怖 dreadful Heisig's State of mind . . . linen. Koohii #1 Someone in a dreadful state of mind has crawled into his bed and is hiding under the sheets (linens). Koohii #2 Being an android, Data is white as a sheet. Doctor Crusher always has to remind herself that this is perfectly normal. From a doctor´s perspective, he really does look dreadful. Primitives dreadful, Freud, state of mind, linen, by one’s side, towel 恐怖(きょうふ): be afraid, dread, dismay, terror 怖い(こわい): frightening Kunyomi: こわ.い、こわ.がる、お.じる、おそ.れる Onyomi: フ、ホ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 怖い (こわ.い)	dreadful 怖 画数8 670 Details Story Dictionary 怖 dreadful Heisig's State of mind . . . linen. Koohii #1 Someone in a dreadful state of mind has crawled into his bed and is hiding under the sheets (linens). Koohii #2 Being an android, Data is white as a sheet. Doctor Crusher always has to remind herself that this is perfectly normal. From a doctor´s perspective, he really does look dreadful. Primitives dreadful, Freud, state of mind, linen, by one’s side, towel 恐怖(きょうふ): be afraid, dread, dismay, terror 怖い(こわい): frightening Kunyomi: こわ.い、こわ.がる、お.じる、おそ.れる Onyomi: フ、ホ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 怖い (こわ.い)
"disconcerted Details Story Dictionary 慌 disconcerted Heisig's State of mind . . . laid waste. Koohii #1 (re: wazzab) The state of mind of the people of New Orleans as they examined their city´s concert hall laid waste can best described as disconcerted. Koohii #2 Data walks in and sees Picard weeping. ""What is the matter, Captain?"" Picard looks up, and replies that his entire home planet has been laid to waste. Data, the master of tact, offers up this consolation: ""Ah. I can see how that would be DISCONCERTing"". It turns out that the flow of tears was really just because Picard had lost his chance at getting at some rare (and thus valuable) flowers on his home planet. Primitives disconcerted, Freud, state of mind, laid waste, wreath, flowers, deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook, stream, flood 慌ただしい(あわただしい): busy, hurried, confused, flurried 慌てる(あわてる): to become confused (disconcerted disorganized) Kunyomi: あわ.てる、あわ.ただしい Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 慌ただしい (あわ.ただしい), 慌てる (あわ.てる)"	"disconcerted 慌 画数12 671 Details Story Dictionary 慌 disconcerted Heisig's State of mind . . . laid waste. Koohii #1 (re: wazzab) The state of mind of the people of New Orleans as they examined their city´s concert hall laid waste can best described as disconcerted. Koohii #2 Data walks in and sees Picard weeping. ""What is the matter, Captain?"" Picard looks up, and replies that his entire home planet has been laid to waste. Data, the master of tact, offers up this consolation: ""Ah. I can see how that would be DISCONCERTing"". It turns out that the flow of tears was really just because Picard had lost his chance at getting at some rare (and thus valuable) flowers on his home planet. Primitives disconcerted, Freud, state of mind, laid waste, wreath, flowers, deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook, stream, flood 慌ただしい(あわただしい): busy, hurried, confused, flurried 慌てる(あわてる): to become confused (disconcerted disorganized) Kunyomi: あわ.てる、あわ.ただしい Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 慌ただしい (あわ.ただしい), 慌てる (あわ.てる)"
repent Details Story Dictionary 悔 repent Heisig's State of mind . . . every (See frame 497). Koohii #1 For all have sinned... so everyone´s state of mind should be to repent. Koohii #2 When you repent, you heal your state of mind by going over every thing you regret doing. Primitives repent, Freud, state of mind, every, reclining, lying down, mother, breasts 後悔(こうかい): regret, repentance 悔しい(くやしい): regrettable, mortifying, vexing 悔やむ(くやむ): mourn Kunyomi: く.いる、く.やむ、くや.しい Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 悔いる (く.いる), 悔やむ (く.やむ), 悔しい (くや.しい)	repent 悔 画数9 672 Details Story Dictionary 悔 repent Heisig's State of mind . . . every (See frame 497). Koohii #1 For all have sinned... so everyone´s state of mind should be to repent. Koohii #2 When you repent, you heal your state of mind by going over every thing you regret doing. Primitives repent, Freud, state of mind, every, reclining, lying down, mother, breasts 後悔(こうかい): regret, repentance 悔しい(くやしい): regrettable, mortifying, vexing 悔やむ(くやむ): mourn Kunyomi: く.いる、く.やむ、くや.しい Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 悔いる (く.いる), 悔やむ (く.やむ), 悔しい (くや.しい)
hate Details Story Dictionary 憎 hate Heisig's State of mind . . . increase. Koohii #1 Like the saying goes, Hate just begets Hate. A state of mind that just increases and increases until it explodes. Koohii #2 Data´s one true emotion is hate for Prince´s music. (Image: Data hunched over hands to his ears and screaming while Picard bobs to Purple Rain). Primitives hate, Freud, state of mind, increase, formerly, horns, rice field, brains, sun, day 愛憎(あいにく): likes and dislikes 憎しみ(にくしみ): hatred 憎い(にくい): hateful, abominable, poor-looking, detestable, (with irony) lovely, lovable, wonderful 憎む(にくむ): hate, detest 憎らしい(にくらしい): odious, hateful Kunyomi: にく.む、にく.い、にく.らしい、にく.しみ Onyomi: ゾウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 憎い (にく.い), 憎しみ (にく.しみ), 憎む (にく.む), 憎らしい (にく.らしい)	hate 憎 画数14 673 Details Story Dictionary 憎 hate Heisig's State of mind . . . increase. Koohii #1 Like the saying goes, Hate just begets Hate. A state of mind that just increases and increases until it explodes. Koohii #2 Data´s one true emotion is hate for Prince´s music. (Image: Data hunched over hands to his ears and screaming while Picard bobs to Purple Rain). Primitives hate, Freud, state of mind, increase, formerly, horns, rice field, brains, sun, day 愛憎(あいにく): likes and dislikes 憎しみ(にくしみ): hatred 憎い(にくい): hateful, abominable, poor-looking, detestable, (with irony) lovely, lovable, wonderful 憎む(にくむ): hate, detest 憎らしい(にくらしい): odious, hateful Kunyomi: にく.む、にく.い、にく.らしい、にく.しみ Onyomi: ゾウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 憎い (にく.い), 憎しみ (にく.しみ), 憎む (にく.む), 憎らしい (にく.らしい)
"accustomed Details Story Dictionary 慣 accustomed Heisig's State of mind . . . pierce. Koohii #1 It took him awhile, but Data finally got ACCUSTOMED to his nipple/breast piercings. They were constantly rubbing up against his shirt and his heart-shaped locket. Picture Data, shirtless, squeezing his nipples in front of Picard and saying ""Yes, at first they were a bit shelly, but I´ve grown quite ACCUSTOMED to them"". That last bit should do it for you. Koohii #2 Some hardcore monks have a state of mind that has become accustomed to their self-torture through piercing themselves. Primitives accustomed, Freud, state of mind, pierce, mother, breasts, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 慣用(かんよう): common, customary 慣行(かんこう): customary practice, habit, traditional event 慣習(かんしゅう): usual (historical) custom 慣例(かんれい): custom, precedent, of convention 慣らす(ならす): to accustom 慣れ(なれ): practice, experience 見慣れる(みなれる): become used to seeing, be familiar with 習慣(しゅうかん): habit, custom 慣れる(なれる): get used to Kunyomi: な.れる、な.らす Onyomi: カン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 慣らす (な.らす), 慣れる (な.れる)"	"accustomed 慣 画数14 674 Details Story Dictionary 慣 accustomed Heisig's State of mind . . . pierce. Koohii #1 It took him awhile, but Data finally got ACCUSTOMED to his nipple/breast piercings. They were constantly rubbing up against his shirt and his heart-shaped locket. Picture Data, shirtless, squeezing his nipples in front of Picard and saying ""Yes, at first they were a bit shelly, but I´ve grown quite ACCUSTOMED to them"". That last bit should do it for you. Koohii #2 Some hardcore monks have a state of mind that has become accustomed to their self-torture through piercing themselves. Primitives accustomed, Freud, state of mind, pierce, mother, breasts, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 慣用(かんよう): common, customary 慣行(かんこう): customary practice, habit, traditional event 慣習(かんしゅう): usual (historical) custom 慣例(かんれい): custom, precedent, of convention 慣らす(ならす): to accustom 慣れ(なれ): practice, experience 見慣れる(みなれる): become used to seeing, be familiar with 習慣(しゅうかん): habit, custom 慣れる(なれる): get used to Kunyomi: な.れる、な.らす Onyomi: カン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 慣らす (な.らす), 慣れる (な.れる)"
pleasure Details Story Dictionary 愉 pleasure Heisig's State of mind . . . butchers (See frame 307). Koohii #1 At the meeting of butchers, in their narrow state of mind, they throw lame jokes around like, ´Oh hello, it´s a pleasure to meat you´, and find this rather pleasing. Koohii #2 Image : Data attending a meeting of the butchers union. As a joke to begin his speech he says, ´Its a pleasure to MEAT you all.´ (thanx to Shibo & nestOr). Primitives pleasure, Freud, state of mind, meeting, umbrella, butchers, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sword, sabre, saber 愉快(ゆかい): pleasant, happy Kunyomi: たの.しい、たの.しむ Onyomi: ユ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	pleasure 愉 画数12 675 Details Story Dictionary 愉 pleasure Heisig's State of mind . . . butchers (See frame 307). Koohii #1 At the meeting of butchers, in their narrow state of mind, they throw lame jokes around like, ´Oh hello, it´s a pleasure to meat you´, and find this rather pleasing. Koohii #2 Image : Data attending a meeting of the butchers union. As a joke to begin his speech he says, ´Its a pleasure to MEAT you all.´ (thanx to Shibo & nestOr). Primitives pleasure, Freud, state of mind, meeting, umbrella, butchers, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sword, sabre, saber 愉快(ゆかい): pleasant, happy Kunyomi: たの.しい、たの.しむ Onyomi: ユ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"lazy Details Story Dictionary 惰 lazy Heisig's State of mind . . . left (i.e. ""sinister"") . . . flesh. Koohii #1 When I am in a LAZY state of mind I use my left hand to play with my meat...it feels like someone else is doing it, which is good cause I´m to lazy to get a date. Koohii #2 When in a lazy state of mind, the things you need to do are left for next month. Primitives lazy, Freud, state of mind, left-handed, left, by one’s side, craft, moon, month, flesh, part of the body Kunyomi: Onyomi: ダ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"lazy 惰 画数12 676 Details Story Dictionary 惰 lazy Heisig's State of mind . . . left (i.e. ""sinister"") . . . flesh. Koohii #1 When I am in a LAZY state of mind I use my left hand to play with my meat...it feels like someone else is doing it, which is good cause I´m to lazy to get a date. Koohii #2 When in a lazy state of mind, the things you need to do are left for next month. Primitives lazy, Freud, state of mind, left-handed, left, by one’s side, craft, moon, month, flesh, part of the body Kunyomi: Onyomi: ダ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
humility Details Story Dictionary 慎 humility Heisig's State of mind . . . truth. Koohii #1 Humility is the state of mind of accepting the truth about yourself - both favorable and unfavorable. (tweaked version of Raichu´s). Koohii #2 Humility is a state of mind when you consider yourself in accordance with the truth (you neither boast nor demean yourself). Primitives humility, Freud, state of mind, true, truth, ten, needle, eye, tool, animal legs, eight 慎む(つつしむ): to be careful, to be chaste or discreet, to abstain or refrain 慎重(しんちょう): discretion, prudence Kunyomi: つつし.む、つつし、つつし.み Onyomi: シン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 慎む (つつし.む)	humility 慎 画数13 677 Details Story Dictionary 慎 humility Heisig's State of mind . . . truth. Koohii #1 Humility is the state of mind of accepting the truth about yourself - both favorable and unfavorable. (tweaked version of Raichu´s). Koohii #2 Humility is a state of mind when you consider yourself in accordance with the truth (you neither boast nor demean yourself). Primitives humility, Freud, state of mind, true, truth, ten, needle, eye, tool, animal legs, eight 慎む(つつしむ): to be careful, to be chaste or discreet, to abstain or refrain 慎重(しんちょう): discretion, prudence Kunyomi: つつし.む、つつし、つつし.み Onyomi: シン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 慎む (つつし.む)
"remorse Details Story Dictionary 憾 remorse Heisig's State of mind . . . emotion. Hint: the etymology of ""remorse"" indicates a memory that returns again and again to ""bite at"" one's conscience and disturb one's peace of mind. Koohii #1 Remorse is the state of mind where I feel bad for what I did while I was tired and emotional! Koohii #2 Tip: If you are confusing this keyword, remorse, with repent (#625) and regret/resentment (#1460), then note that rEMOrse contains EMOtion. Primitives remorse, Freud, state of mind, emotion, march, mouth, heart Kunyomi: うら.む Onyomi: カン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"remorse 憾 画数16 678 Details Story Dictionary 憾 remorse Heisig's State of mind . . . emotion. Hint: the etymology of ""remorse"" indicates a memory that returns again and again to ""bite at"" one's conscience and disturb one's peace of mind. Koohii #1 Remorse is the state of mind where I feel bad for what I did while I was tired and emotional! Koohii #2 Tip: If you are confusing this keyword, remorse, with repent (#625) and regret/resentment (#1460), then note that rEMOrse contains EMOtion. Primitives remorse, Freud, state of mind, emotion, march, mouth, heart Kunyomi: うら.む Onyomi: カン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
recollection Details Story Dictionary 憶 recollection Heisig's State of mind . . . idea. Koohii #1 Recollection is about bringing ideas back to your mind. Koohii #2 Data´s recollection powers are unparalled. He never loses a single idea. Primitives recollection, Freud, state of mind, idea, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, heart 記憶(きおく): memory, recollection, remembrance Kunyomi: Onyomi: オク Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	recollection 憶 画数16 679 Details Story Dictionary 憶 recollection Heisig's State of mind . . . idea. Koohii #1 Recollection is about bringing ideas back to your mind. Koohii #2 Data´s recollection powers are unparalled. He never loses a single idea. Primitives recollection, Freud, state of mind, idea, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, heart 記憶(きおく): memory, recollection, remembrance Kunyomi: Onyomi: オク Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
disquieting Details Story Dictionary 惧 disquieting Heisig's State of mind . . . tool. Koohii #1 My mind found the tool disquieting. Koohii #2 Its disquieting to my state of mind when tools are arranged messily. Kunyomi: おそ.れる Onyomi: ク Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	disquieting 惧 画数11 680 Details Story Dictionary 惧 disquieting Heisig's State of mind . . . tool. Koohii #1 My mind found the tool disquieting. Koohii #2 Its disquieting to my state of mind when tools are arranged messily. Kunyomi: おそ.れる Onyomi: ク Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
yearn Details Story Dictionary 憧 yearn Heisig's Think of the state of mind you were in as a child with a particularly juvenile yearning. Koohii #1 A paedophile´s state of mind is to yearn for juveniles. Koohii #2 A juvenile´s state of mind tends to go apeshit when they see something they yearn for. Usually involving jumping up and down, tantrums, and other bullshit. (Imagine giving them a big backhand across the face.). Primitives yearn, Freud, state of mind, juvenile, vase, stand up, computer 憧れ(あこがれ): yearning, longing, aspiration 憧れる(あこがれる): long for, yearn after, admire, be attracted by Kunyomi: あこが.れる Onyomi: ショウ、トウ、ドウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 憧れる (あこが.れる)	yearn 憧 画数15 681 Details Story Dictionary 憧 yearn Heisig's Think of the state of mind you were in as a child with a particularly juvenile yearning. Koohii #1 A paedophile´s state of mind is to yearn for juveniles. Koohii #2 A juvenile´s state of mind tends to go apeshit when they see something they yearn for. Usually involving jumping up and down, tantrums, and other bullshit. (Imagine giving them a big backhand across the face.). Primitives yearn, Freud, state of mind, juvenile, vase, stand up, computer 憧れ(あこがれ): yearning, longing, aspiration 憧れる(あこがれる): long for, yearn after, admire, be attracted by Kunyomi: あこが.れる Onyomi: ショウ、トウ、ドウ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 憧れる (あこが.れる)
hanker Details Story Dictionary 憬 hanker Heisig's State of mind . . . scenery. Koohii #1 My mind hankers for sunrise over the capital. Koohii #2 I'm in a state of mind where I hanker to see the sun over the capital for some nice scenery for a change (no more rain!) Kunyomi: あこが.れる Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	hanker 憬 画数15 682 Details Story Dictionary 憬 hanker Heisig's State of mind . . . scenery. Koohii #1 My mind hankers for sunrise over the capital. Koohii #2 I'm in a state of mind where I hanker to see the sun over the capital for some nice scenery for a change (no more rain!) Kunyomi: あこが.れる Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
pining Details Story Dictionary 慕 pining Heisig's Graveyard . . . valentine. Note carefully the stroke order of the valentine primitive. Koohii #1 Pining, yearn for... etc. Presumably for lost love. An easy one here, someone standing in the graveyard, placing an old valentine card amonst all the existing tributes. Koohii #2 Morticia and Gomez (of the “Addams Family”) are spending their Valentine´s Day at the graveyard, pining for each other´s affection. Primitives pining, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard, valentine 慕う(したう): to yearn for, to miss, to adore, to love dearly Kunyomi: した.う Onyomi: ボ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 慕う (した.う)	pining 慕 画数14 683 Details Story Dictionary 慕 pining Heisig's Graveyard . . . valentine. Note carefully the stroke order of the valentine primitive. Koohii #1 Pining, yearn for... etc. Presumably for lost love. An easy one here, someone standing in the graveyard, placing an old valentine card amonst all the existing tributes. Koohii #2 Morticia and Gomez (of the “Addams Family”) are spending their Valentine´s Day at the graveyard, pining for each other´s affection. Primitives pining, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard, valentine 慕う(したう): to yearn for, to miss, to adore, to love dearly Kunyomi: した.う Onyomi: ボ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 慕う (した.う)
annexed Details Story Dictionary 添 annexed Heisig's Water . . . heavens . . . valentine. Koohii #1 Hawaii is a little drop of heaven nestled in the waters of the Pacific, most often visited by honeymooners and valentines. It was annexed to the U.S.A. in 1959, and more recently to Japan as well-- albeit only unofficially, and through private commercial holdings. Koohii #2 Annexed to the U.S.A. in 1898, Hawaii is nestled in the waters of the Pacific, a little drop of heaven, often visited on Valentines.. (from Ihatobu with the date corrected. Hawaii became a state in 1959)...　RTK2:　テン　添付　てんぷ(appendix). Primitives annexed, water, water droplets, water pistol, heavens, valentine 添う(そう): to accompany, to become married, to comply with 添える(そえる): to add to, to attach, to append, to accompany, to garnish, to imitate, to annex Kunyomi: そ.える、そ.う、も.える、も.う Onyomi: テン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 添う (そ.う), 添える (そ.える)	annexed 添 画数11 684 Details Story Dictionary 添 annexed Heisig's Water . . . heavens . . . valentine. Koohii #1 Hawaii is a little drop of heaven nestled in the waters of the Pacific, most often visited by honeymooners and valentines. It was annexed to the U.S.A. in 1959, and more recently to Japan as well-- albeit only unofficially, and through private commercial holdings. Koohii #2 Annexed to the U.S.A. in 1898, Hawaii is nestled in the waters of the Pacific, a little drop of heaven, often visited on Valentines.. (from Ihatobu with the date corrected. Hawaii became a state in 1959)...　RTK2:　テン　添付　てんぷ(appendix). Primitives annexed, water, water droplets, water pistol, heavens, valentine 添う(そう): to accompany, to become married, to comply with 添える(そえる): to add to, to attach, to append, to accompany, to garnish, to imitate, to annex Kunyomi: そ.える、そ.う、も.える、も.う Onyomi: テン Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 添う (そ.う), 添える (そ.える)
"invariably Details Story Dictionary 必 invariably Heisig's First note the stroke order of this character, which did not really evolve from the heart, even though we take it that way. If one takes it as a pictograph ""dividing"" the heart in half, then one has one of those invariably true bits of human anatomy: the fact that each heart is divided into two halves. Koohii #1 You swear you´ll be in love forever, but invariably there comes a time when your heart is divided. Koohii #2 For this kanji I invariably got the stroke order wrong. I nearly lost heart, but decided to stick (pun) to it. Then I noticed the order is 1) katakana ソ (altered slightly); 2) fishhook; 3) two drops. Now I invariably get it right. Primitives invariably, heart, stick, drop, fishhook, drop3 必修(ひっしゅう): required (subject) 必然(ひつぜん): inevitable, necessary 必ずしも(かならずしも): (not) always, (not) necessarily, (not) all, (not) entirely 必死(ひっし): inevitable death, desperation, frantic, inevitable result 必需品(ひつじゅひん): necessities, necessary article, requisite, essential 必ず(かならず): certainly 必要(ひつよう): necessary Kunyomi: かなら.ず Onyomi: ヒツ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 必ず (かなら.ず)"	"invariably 必 画数5 685 Details Story Dictionary 必 invariably Heisig's First note the stroke order of this character, which did not really evolve from the heart, even though we take it that way. If one takes it as a pictograph ""dividing"" the heart in half, then one has one of those invariably true bits of human anatomy: the fact that each heart is divided into two halves. Koohii #1 You swear you´ll be in love forever, but invariably there comes a time when your heart is divided. Koohii #2 For this kanji I invariably got the stroke order wrong. I nearly lost heart, but decided to stick (pun) to it. Then I noticed the order is 1) katakana ソ (altered slightly); 2) fishhook; 3) two drops. Now I invariably get it right. Primitives invariably, heart, stick, drop, fishhook, drop3 必修(ひっしゅう): required (subject) 必然(ひつぜん): inevitable, necessary 必ずしも(かならずしも): (not) always, (not) necessarily, (not) all, (not) entirely 必死(ひっし): inevitable death, desperation, frantic, inevitable result 必需品(ひつじゅひん): necessities, necessary article, requisite, essential 必ず(かならず): certainly 必要(ひつよう): necessary Kunyomi: かなら.ず Onyomi: ヒツ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 必ず (かなら.ず)"
ooze Details Story Dictionary 泌 ooze Heisig's Water . . . the invariably divided heart. Koohii #1 Anything full of water will invariably begin to ooze. Koohii #2 When you pierce a heart with a stake, it invariably oozes blood. Primitives ooze, water, water droplets, water pistol, invariably, heart, stick, drop, fishhook, drop3 泌み泌み(しみじみ): keenly, deeply, heartily Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヒツ、ヒ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 分泌 (ぶんぴつ)	ooze 泌 画数8 686 Details Story Dictionary 泌 ooze Heisig's Water . . . the invariably divided heart. Koohii #1 Anything full of water will invariably begin to ooze. Koohii #2 When you pierce a heart with a stake, it invariably oozes blood. Primitives ooze, water, water droplets, water pistol, invariably, heart, stick, drop, fishhook, drop3 泌み泌み(しみじみ): keenly, deeply, heartily Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヒツ、ヒ Lesson: 22 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 分泌 (ぶんぴつ)
hand Details Story Dictionary 手 hand Heisig's Any way you count them, there are either too many or too few fingers to see a good pictograph of a hand in this character. But that it is, and so you must. * Keep to the etymology when using this kanji as a primitive: a single hand all by itself. Koohii #1 This pictograph actually really works if you look at it as a hand with fingers spread and middle finger pointing down. see the very top stroke as the edge of a shirt cuff, and it will all come together. Koohii #2 A hand is useful for 千一(1001) things. Primitives hand 上手(うわて): upper part, upper stream, left side (of a stage), skillful (only in comparisons), dexterity (only in comparisons) お手上げ(おてあげ): all over, given in, given up hope, bring to knees 小切手(こぎって): cheque, check 手芸(しゅげい): handicrafts 手法(しゅほう): technique 着手(ちゃくしゅ): embarkation, launch 手当て(てあて): allowance, compensation, treatment, medical care 手遅れ(ておくれ): too late, belated treatment 手掛かり(てがかり): contact, trail, scent, on hand, hand hold, clue, key 手掛ける(てがける): to handle, to manage, to work with, to rear, to look after, to have experience with 手数(てかず): number of moves, trouble 手軽(てがる): easy, simple, informal, offhand, cheap 手際(てぎわ): performance, skill, tact 手順(てじゅん): process, procedure, protocol 手錠(てじょう): handcuffs, manacles 手近(てぢか): near, handy, familiar 手配(てはい): arrangement, search (by police) 手筈(てはず): arrangement, plan, programme 手引き(てびき): guidance, guide, introduction 手本(てほん): model, pattern 手回し(てまわし): preparations, arrangements 手元(てもと): on hand, at hand, at home 手分け(てわけ): division of labour 取っ手(とって): handle, grip, knob 土手(どて): embankment, bank 入手(にゅうしゅ): obtaining, coming to hand 相手(あいて): companion, partner, company, other party, addressee 握手(あくしゅ): handshake お手伝いさん(おてつだいさん): maid 歌手(かしゅ): singer 手術(しゅじゅつ): surgical operation 手段(しゅだん): means, way, measure 助手(じょしゅ): helper, assistant, tutor 選手(せんしゅ): player (in game), team 手洗い(てあらい): restroom, lavatory, hand-washing 手入れ(ていれ): repairs, maintenance 手首(てくび): wrist 手頃(てごろ): moderate, handy 手品(てじな): sleight of hand, conjuring trick, magic, juggling 手帳(てちょう): notebook 手伝い(てつだい): help, helper, assistant 手続き(てつづき): procedure, (legal) process, formalities 手拭い(てぬぐい): (hand) towel 手間(てま): time, labour 手前(てまえ): before, this side, we, you 苦手(にがて): poor (at), weak (in), dislike (of) 拍手(はくしゅ): clapping hands, applause 派手(はで): showy, loud, gay, flashy, gaudy 運転手(うんてんしゅ): drive 手伝う(てつだう): help 手袋(てぶくろ): gloves お手洗い(おてあらい): toilet, restroom, lavatory, bathroom (US) 切手(きって): stamp 上手(じょうず): skill, skillful, dexterity 手(て): hand 手紙(てがみ): letter 下手(へた): unskillful, poor, awkward Kunyomi: て、て-、-て、た- Onyomi: シュ、ズ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 手 (て)	hand 手 画数4 687 Details Story Dictionary 手 hand Heisig's Any way you count them, there are either too many or too few fingers to see a good pictograph of a hand in this character. But that it is, and so you must. * Keep to the etymology when using this kanji as a primitive: a single hand all by itself. Koohii #1 This pictograph actually really works if you look at it as a hand with fingers spread and middle finger pointing down. see the very top stroke as the edge of a shirt cuff, and it will all come together. Koohii #2 A hand is useful for 千一(1001) things. Primitives hand 上手(うわて): upper part, upper stream, left side (of a stage), skillful (only in comparisons), dexterity (only in comparisons) お手上げ(おてあげ): all over, given in, given up hope, bring to knees 小切手(こぎって): cheque, check 手芸(しゅげい): handicrafts 手法(しゅほう): technique 着手(ちゃくしゅ): embarkation, launch 手当て(てあて): allowance, compensation, treatment, medical care 手遅れ(ておくれ): too late, belated treatment 手掛かり(てがかり): contact, trail, scent, on hand, hand hold, clue, key 手掛ける(てがける): to handle, to manage, to work with, to rear, to look after, to have experience with 手数(てかず): number of moves, trouble 手軽(てがる): easy, simple, informal, offhand, cheap 手際(てぎわ): performance, skill, tact 手順(てじゅん): process, procedure, protocol 手錠(てじょう): handcuffs, manacles 手近(てぢか): near, handy, familiar 手配(てはい): arrangement, search (by police) 手筈(てはず): arrangement, plan, programme 手引き(てびき): guidance, guide, introduction 手本(てほん): model, pattern 手回し(てまわし): preparations, arrangements 手元(てもと): on hand, at hand, at home 手分け(てわけ): division of labour 取っ手(とって): handle, grip, knob 土手(どて): embankment, bank 入手(にゅうしゅ): obtaining, coming to hand 相手(あいて): companion, partner, company, other party, addressee 握手(あくしゅ): handshake お手伝いさん(おてつだいさん): maid 歌手(かしゅ): singer 手術(しゅじゅつ): surgical operation 手段(しゅだん): means, way, measure 助手(じょしゅ): helper, assistant, tutor 選手(せんしゅ): player (in game), team 手洗い(てあらい): restroom, lavatory, hand-washing 手入れ(ていれ): repairs, maintenance 手首(てくび): wrist 手頃(てごろ): moderate, handy 手品(てじな): sleight of hand, conjuring trick, magic, juggling 手帳(てちょう): notebook 手伝い(てつだい): help, helper, assistant 手続き(てつづき): procedure, (legal) process, formalities 手拭い(てぬぐい): (hand) towel 手間(てま): time, labour 手前(てまえ): before, this side, we, you 苦手(にがて): poor (at), weak (in), dislike (of) 拍手(はくしゅ): clapping hands, applause 派手(はで): showy, loud, gay, flashy, gaudy 運転手(うんてんしゅ): drive 手伝う(てつだう): help 手袋(てぶくろ): gloves お手洗い(おてあらい): toilet, restroom, lavatory, bathroom (US) 切手(きって): stamp 上手(じょうず): skill, skillful, dexterity 手(て): hand 手紙(てがみ): letter 下手(へた): unskillful, poor, awkward Kunyomi: て、て-、-て、た- Onyomi: シュ、ズ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 手 (て)
watch over Details Story Dictionary 看 watch over Heisig's Hand . . . eyes. Koohii #1 It´s a hot day of summer with a clear sky, you´re sitting outside a cafe (or maybe on a reclining chair in the garden), and you watch over the kids with a hand covering your eyes from the sunlight (next time, don´t forget the sunglasses). Koohii #2 Think of the monster from Pan´s Labrynth, that watched over the poor girl with eyes in the palm of his hands. Primitives watch over, hand, eye 看護(かんご): nursing, (army) nurse 看板(かんばん): sign, signboard, doorplate, poster, billboard, appearance, figurehead, policy, attraction, closing time 看病(かんびょう): nursing (a patient) 看護婦(かんごふ): nurse Kunyomi: み.る Onyomi: カン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	watch over 看 画数9 688 Details Story Dictionary 看 watch over Heisig's Hand . . . eyes. Koohii #1 It´s a hot day of summer with a clear sky, you´re sitting outside a cafe (or maybe on a reclining chair in the garden), and you watch over the kids with a hand covering your eyes from the sunlight (next time, don´t forget the sunglasses). Koohii #2 Think of the monster from Pan´s Labrynth, that watched over the poor girl with eyes in the palm of his hands. Primitives watch over, hand, eye 看護(かんご): nursing, (army) nurse 看板(かんばん): sign, signboard, doorplate, poster, billboard, appearance, figurehead, policy, attraction, closing time 看病(かんびょう): nursing (a patient) 看護婦(かんごふ): nurse Kunyomi: み.る Onyomi: カン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"chafe Details Story Dictionary 摩 chafe Heisig's Hemp . . . hand. Koohii #1 If you grind the hemp without a stone but use your hand instead it will chafe. (Image: ""Robin, why are your hands all chafed?"" ´Uh... (I´ve been grinding hemp all day)´). Koohii #2 When the feds came to bust your little hemp grove, you jumped out the back side of the cave and tried to repel down with a hemp rope. Unfortunately, the rope chafed your hands and you fell .. ouch! Primitives chafe, hemp, cave, grove, tree, wood, hand, tree2, wood2 摩擦(まさつ): friction, rubbing, rubdown, chafe Kunyomi: ま.する、さ.する、す.る Onyomi: マ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"chafe 摩 画数15 689 Details Story Dictionary 摩 chafe Heisig's Hemp . . . hand. Koohii #1 If you grind the hemp without a stone but use your hand instead it will chafe. (Image: ""Robin, why are your hands all chafed?"" ´Uh... (I´ve been grinding hemp all day)´). Koohii #2 When the feds came to bust your little hemp grove, you jumped out the back side of the cave and tried to repel down with a hemp rope. Unfortunately, the rope chafed your hands and you fell .. ouch! Primitives chafe, hemp, cave, grove, tree, wood, hand, tree2, wood2 摩擦(まさつ): friction, rubbing, rubdown, chafe Kunyomi: ま.する、さ.する、す.る Onyomi: マ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"ego Details Story Dictionary 我 ego Heisig's Hand . . . fiesta. Note how the second stroke of the hand is stretched across to double up as the first stroke of the tasseled arrow we use for fiesta. Compare to frames 17, 36, and 564. Koohii #1 Someone with a huge EGO is too good for any romantic partner and as such has nothing but personal ""hand fiestas"" with himself every night. Koohii #2 Did you hear about the guy who had such a big EGO that he threw a fiesta for his left hand? Primitives ego, hand, fiesta 怪我(けが): injury, get hurt, be injured 自我(じが): self, the ego 我がまま(わがまま): selfishness, egoism, wilfulness, disobedience, whim 我慢(がまん): patience, endurance, perseverance, tolerance, self-control, self-denial 我々(われわれ): we Kunyomi: われ、わ、わ.が-、わが- Onyomi: ガ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 我 (わ), 我 (われ)"	"ego 我 画数7 690 Details Story Dictionary 我 ego Heisig's Hand . . . fiesta. Note how the second stroke of the hand is stretched across to double up as the first stroke of the tasseled arrow we use for fiesta. Compare to frames 17, 36, and 564. Koohii #1 Someone with a huge EGO is too good for any romantic partner and as such has nothing but personal ""hand fiestas"" with himself every night. Koohii #2 Did you hear about the guy who had such a big EGO that he threw a fiesta for his left hand? Primitives ego, hand, fiesta 怪我(けが): injury, get hurt, be injured 自我(じが): self, the ego 我がまま(わがまま): selfishness, egoism, wilfulness, disobedience, whim 我慢(がまん): patience, endurance, perseverance, tolerance, self-control, self-denial 我々(われわれ): we Kunyomi: われ、わ、わ.が-、わが- Onyomi: ガ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 我 (わ), 我 (われ)"
righteousness Details Story Dictionary 義 righteousness My Story [Horny King + We] *We* are most righteous when we act like conformist *sheep*. Koohii #1 Righteous Christians are sheep with egos (reworked from raulir, fixes word order to match radical order). Koohii #2 On the other hand, Woman tend to have too much self-righteousness to allow any man to touch their wooly black sheep this results in similar hand fiestas. Primitives righteousness, sheep, ego, hand, fiesta 義理(ぎり): duty, sense of duty, honor, decency, courtesy, debt of gratitude, social obligation 主義(しゅぎ): doctrine, rule, principle 正義(せいぎ): justice, right, righteousness, correct meaning 定義(ていぎ): definition 意義(いぎ): meaning, significance 義務(ぎむ): duty, obligation, responsibility 講義(こうぎ): lecture Kunyomi: Onyomi: ギ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	righteousness 義 画数13 691 Details Story Dictionary 義 righteousness My Story [Horny King + We] *We* are most righteous when we act like conformist *sheep*. Koohii #1 Righteous Christians are sheep with egos (reworked from raulir, fixes word order to match radical order). Koohii #2 On the other hand, Woman tend to have too much self-righteousness to allow any man to touch their wooly black sheep this results in similar hand fiestas. Primitives righteousness, sheep, ego, hand, fiesta 義理(ぎり): duty, sense of duty, honor, decency, courtesy, debt of gratitude, social obligation 主義(しゅぎ): doctrine, rule, principle 正義(せいぎ): justice, right, righteousness, correct meaning 定義(ていぎ): definition 意義(いぎ): meaning, significance 義務(ぎむ): duty, obligation, responsibility 講義(こうぎ): lecture Kunyomi: Onyomi: ギ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
deliberation / disscussion Details Story Dictionary 議 deliberation / disscussion My Story [Say + righteousness(Horny King + We){義}] Take {義} and think of it in terms of justice. A jury needs #deliberation# before a verdict is given. We humans cannot #deliberately# combine *words* with *sheep*, *we* arent magic Koohii #1 Careful deliberation produces words of righteousness. Koohii #2 At the worst of times, a jury´s deliberation descends into a war of words between competing self-righteous, power-tripping bastards. Primitives deliberation, say, words, keitai, mouth, righteousness, sheep, ego, hand, fiesta 異議(いぎ): objection, dissent, protest 議案(ぎあん): legislative bill 議決(ぎけつ): resolution, decision, vote 議事堂(ぎじどう): Diet building 議題(ぎだい): topic of discussion, agenda 協議(きょうぎ): conference, consultation, discussion, negotiation 決議(けつぎ): resolution, vote, decision 抗議(こうぎ): protest, objection 合議(ごうぎ): consultation, conference 参議院(さんぎいん): House of Councillors 衆議院(しゅうぎいん): Lower House, House of Representatives 審議(しんぎ): deliberation 討議(とうぎ): debate, discussion 物議(ぶつぎ): public discussion (criticism) 論議(ろんぎ): discussion 議員(ぎいん): member of the Diet, congress or parliament 議会(ぎかい): Diet, congress, parliament 議長(ぎちょう): chairman 議論(ぎろん): argument, discussion, dispute 不思議(ふしぎ): wonder, miracle, strange, mystery, marvel, curiosity 会議(かいぎ): meeting Kunyomi: Onyomi: ギ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	deliberation / disscussion 議 画数20 692 Details Story Dictionary 議 deliberation / disscussion My Story [Say + righteousness(Horny King + We){義}] Take {義} and think of it in terms of justice. A jury needs #deliberation# before a verdict is given. We humans cannot #deliberately# combine *words* with *sheep*, *we* arent magic Koohii #1 Careful deliberation produces words of righteousness. Koohii #2 At the worst of times, a jury´s deliberation descends into a war of words between competing self-righteous, power-tripping bastards. Primitives deliberation, say, words, keitai, mouth, righteousness, sheep, ego, hand, fiesta 異議(いぎ): objection, dissent, protest 議案(ぎあん): legislative bill 議決(ぎけつ): resolution, decision, vote 議事堂(ぎじどう): Diet building 議題(ぎだい): topic of discussion, agenda 協議(きょうぎ): conference, consultation, discussion, negotiation 決議(けつぎ): resolution, vote, decision 抗議(こうぎ): protest, objection 合議(ごうぎ): consultation, conference 参議院(さんぎいん): House of Councillors 衆議院(しゅうぎいん): Lower House, House of Representatives 審議(しんぎ): deliberation 討議(とうぎ): debate, discussion 物議(ぶつぎ): public discussion (criticism) 論議(ろんぎ): discussion 議員(ぎいん): member of the Diet, congress or parliament 議会(ぎかい): Diet, congress, parliament 議長(ぎちょう): chairman 議論(ぎろん): argument, discussion, dispute 不思議(ふしぎ): wonder, miracle, strange, mystery, marvel, curiosity 会議(かいぎ): meeting Kunyomi: Onyomi: ギ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
sacrifice Details Story Dictionary 犠 sacrifice Heisig's Cow . . . righteousness. Do NOT use the image of an animal sacrifice here, as that will have it own character later on. Koohii #1 A cow that is righteous sacrifices her milk for the human race. Koohii #2 Cows are truly righteous animals. They SACRIFICE their milk so that we can have some. And if they don´t have any left, they give a sheep a hand fiesta (good lord this is going too far) and give us that instead. What righteous cows. Primitives sacrifice, cow, righteousness, sheep, ego, hand, fiesta 犠牲(ぎせい): sacrifice Kunyomi: いけにえ Onyomi: ギ、キ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	sacrifice 犠 画数17 693 Details Story Dictionary 犠 sacrifice Heisig's Cow . . . righteousness. Do NOT use the image of an animal sacrifice here, as that will have it own character later on. Koohii #1 A cow that is righteous sacrifices her milk for the human race. Koohii #2 Cows are truly righteous animals. They SACRIFICE their milk so that we can have some. And if they don´t have any left, they give a sheep a hand fiesta (good lord this is going too far) and give us that instead. What righteous cows. Primitives sacrifice, cow, righteousness, sheep, ego, hand, fiesta 犠牲(ぎせい): sacrifice Kunyomi: いけにえ Onyomi: ギ、キ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"rub Details Story Dictionary 抹 rub Heisig's Fingers . . . extremity. Koohii #1 I like to RUB my FINGERS over my EXTREMITIES ....like my extremity-ly long, umm, hair.... This has been edited in response to being reported ...you can change ""hair"" to whatever extremity-ly long body part you like. Koohii #2 When you´re cold, your RUB your FINGERS over your EXTREMITIES vigorously to warm up a bit. I´d still rather go in for a warm fire and some hot cocoa, though. Primitives rub, finger, fingers, extremity, one, tree, wood Kunyomi: Onyomi: マツ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"rub 抹 画数8 694 Details Story Dictionary 抹 rub Heisig's Fingers . . . extremity. Koohii #1 I like to RUB my FINGERS over my EXTREMITIES ....like my extremity-ly long, umm, hair.... This has been edited in response to being reported ...you can change ""hair"" to whatever extremity-ly long body part you like. Koohii #2 When you´re cold, your RUB your FINGERS over your EXTREMITIES vigorously to warm up a bit. I´d still rather go in for a warm fire and some hot cocoa, though. Primitives rub, finger, fingers, extremity, one, tree, wood Kunyomi: Onyomi: マツ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
wipe Details Story Dictionary 拭 wipe Heisig's Fingers . . . style. Koohii #1 Why carry a handkerchief? I wipe my nose finger-style. Koohii #2 If you are going to wipe your nose with your fingers, better do it in a grand style. Primitives wipe, finger, fingers, style, arrow, craft 手拭い(てぬぐい): (hand) towel 拭く(ふく): wipe, dry Kunyomi: ぬぐ.う、ふ.く Onyomi: ショク、シキ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 拭う (ぬぐ.う), 拭く (ふ.く)	wipe 拭 画数9 695 Details Story Dictionary 拭 wipe Heisig's Fingers . . . style. Koohii #1 Why carry a handkerchief? I wipe my nose finger-style. Koohii #2 If you are going to wipe your nose with your fingers, better do it in a grand style. Primitives wipe, finger, fingers, style, arrow, craft 手拭い(てぬぐい): (hand) towel 拭く(ふく): wipe, dry Kunyomi: ぬぐ.う、ふ.く Onyomi: ショク、シキ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 拭う (ぬぐ.う), 拭く (ふ.く)
"yank Details Story Dictionary 拉 yank Heisig's The sense of this key word is to pull or jerk, as in opening a door or making ""ramen"" noodles. Its elements: fingers . . . vase. Koohii #1 He quickly yanked his fingers out of the vase. Maybe no one noticed the attempt to steal the cookies... Koohii #2 He yanked his finger out of the vase upon discovering it had a venus fly trap in it. Kunyomi: くだ.く、 ひし.ぐ、 らっ.する Onyomi: ラ、 ラツ、 ロウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"yank 拉 画数8 696 Details Story Dictionary 拉 yank Heisig's The sense of this key word is to pull or jerk, as in opening a door or making ""ramen"" noodles. Its elements: fingers . . . vase. Koohii #1 He quickly yanked his fingers out of the vase. Maybe no one noticed the attempt to steal the cookies... Koohii #2 He yanked his finger out of the vase upon discovering it had a venus fly trap in it. Kunyomi: くだ.く、 ひし.ぐ、 らっ.する Onyomi: ラ、 ラツ、 ロウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
"embrace Details Story Dictionary 抱 embrace Heisig's Fingers . . . wrap. Koohii #1 When embracing someone, wrap your fingers around her butt for added effect. You may think of ""bound with snakes"" as a description of the fingers slithering around the buttocks, if you want a particularly graphic image. Koohii #2 Here, I´m picturing that scene from ET (the extra terrestrial), where ET hugs Elliot before leaving. You see that EMBRACE is ET´s long FINGERS that WRAP around Elliot. Primitives embrace, finger, fingers, wrap, bound up, snake, self 介抱(かいほう): nursing, looking after 辛抱(しんぼう): patience, endurance 抱く(いだく): embrace, hug, harbour, entertain, sleep with 抱える(かかえる): hold or carry under or in the arms Kunyomi: だ.く、いだ.く、かか.える Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 抱く (いだ.く), 抱える (かか.える), 抱く (だ.く)"	"embrace 抱 画数8 697 Details Story Dictionary 抱 embrace Heisig's Fingers . . . wrap. Koohii #1 When embracing someone, wrap your fingers around her butt for added effect. You may think of ""bound with snakes"" as a description of the fingers slithering around the buttocks, if you want a particularly graphic image. Koohii #2 Here, I´m picturing that scene from ET (the extra terrestrial), where ET hugs Elliot before leaving. You see that EMBRACE is ET´s long FINGERS that WRAP around Elliot. Primitives embrace, finger, fingers, wrap, bound up, snake, self 介抱(かいほう): nursing, looking after 辛抱(しんぼう): patience, endurance 抱く(いだく): embrace, hug, harbour, entertain, sleep with 抱える(かかえる): hold or carry under or in the arms Kunyomi: だ.く、いだ.く、かか.える Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 抱く (いだ.く), 抱える (かか.える), 抱く (だ.く)"
"board Details Story Dictionary 搭 board Heisig's The key word refers to boarding vessels for travel. Its elements are: finger . . . flowers . . . fit together (See frame 270). Koohii #1 Ok, this is a little wierd, but i took this back to the kanji for pagoda (#254). I think it helps simplify the image, and also helps anchor the pagoda kanji in memory better as an added bonus. say this aloud once, and i think it will bring out a vivid image very quickly: ""Now boarding the pagoda ride. Please keep your fingers inside at all times..."". Koohii #2 When you board the ship on the way out from Hawaii a beautiful crewmember takes her fingers and fits a lei around you ....a lei is flowers fitted together with your fingers. Primitives board, finger, fingers, flowers, fit, meeting, umbrella, one, mouth Kunyomi: Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"board 搭 画数12 698 Details Story Dictionary 搭 board Heisig's The key word refers to boarding vessels for travel. Its elements are: finger . . . flowers . . . fit together (See frame 270). Koohii #1 Ok, this is a little wierd, but i took this back to the kanji for pagoda (#254). I think it helps simplify the image, and also helps anchor the pagoda kanji in memory better as an added bonus. say this aloud once, and i think it will bring out a vivid image very quickly: ""Now boarding the pagoda ride. Please keep your fingers inside at all times..."". Koohii #2 When you board the ship on the way out from Hawaii a beautiful crewmember takes her fingers and fits a lei around you ....a lei is flowers fitted together with your fingers. Primitives board, finger, fingers, flowers, fit, meeting, umbrella, one, mouth Kunyomi: Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
extract Details Story Dictionary 抄 extract Heisig's Fingers . . . a few. Koohii #1 You can extract her juices by inserting a few fingers. Koohii #2 The mafia want to extract information from you. You don´t say a word, so out comes the knife. They cut of your fingers until you only have a few left and then you speak. Primitives extract, finger, fingers, few Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	extract 抄 画数7 699 Details Story Dictionary 抄 extract Heisig's Fingers . . . a few. Koohii #1 You can extract her juices by inserting a few fingers. Koohii #2 The mafia want to extract information from you. You don´t say a word, so out comes the knife. They cut of your fingers until you only have a few left and then you speak. Primitives extract, finger, fingers, few Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"confront Details Story Dictionary 抗 confront Heisig's Fingers . . . a whirlwind. Koohii #1 Gandalf confronts the evil beast, shouting ""you shall not pass!"". He holds up a single finger and sends forth a whirlwind. Koohii #2 Imagine a thumb war. A confrontation of fingers in a whirlwind. Primitives confront, finger, fingers, whirlwind, top hat, wind 抗議(こうぎ): protest, objection 抗争(こうそう): dispute, resistance 対抗(たいこう): opposition, antagonism 抵抗(ていこう): electrical resistance, resistance, opposition 反抗(はんこう): opposition, resistance, insubordination, defiance, hostility, rebellion Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"confront 抗 画数7 700 Details Story Dictionary 抗 confront Heisig's Fingers . . . a whirlwind. Koohii #1 Gandalf confronts the evil beast, shouting ""you shall not pass!"". He holds up a single finger and sends forth a whirlwind. Koohii #2 Imagine a thumb war. A confrontation of fingers in a whirlwind. Primitives confront, finger, fingers, whirlwind, top hat, wind 抗議(こうぎ): protest, objection 抗争(こうそう): dispute, resistance 対抗(たいこう): opposition, antagonism 抵抗(ていこう): electrical resistance, resistance, opposition 反抗(はんこう): opposition, resistance, insubordination, defiance, hostility, rebellion Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
criticism Details Story Dictionary 批 criticism Heisig's Finger . . . compare. Koohii #1 Think of the two most famous critics, Ebert and Roeper. On their show, they compare thumbs (which are technically fingers) with each other before dispensing criticism. Koohii #2 My criticism earned me the FINGER when I COMPARED her cooking to my mother´s. Primitives criticism, finger, fingers, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 批判(ひはん): criticism, judgement, comment 批評(ひひょう): criticism, review, commentary Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	criticism 批 画数7 701 Details Story Dictionary 批 criticism Heisig's Finger . . . compare. Koohii #1 Think of the two most famous critics, Ebert and Roeper. On their show, they compare thumbs (which are technically fingers) with each other before dispensing criticism. Koohii #2 My criticism earned me the FINGER when I COMPARED her cooking to my mother´s. Primitives criticism, finger, fingers, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 批判(ひはん): criticism, judgement, comment 批評(ひひょう): criticism, review, commentary Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
beckon Details Story Dictionary 招 beckon My Story Damn it! *MOe* *summoned* another demon {召} summon Koohii #1 A Geisha beckons you with her index finger, and as you approach she runs her fingers all over her body in an attempt to seduce you. Keyword meaning : “invite”. Koohii #2 I bet you all know the Maneki Neko, or beckoning cat, who with its raised fingers tries to seduce all good things (success, happiness and harmony) to its owner. Primitives beckon, finger, fingers, summon, seduce, sword, dagger, mouth 招き(まねき): invitation 招く(まねく): invite 招待(しょうたい): invite Kunyomi: まね.く Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 招く (まね.く)	beckon 招 画数8 702 Details Story Dictionary 招 beckon My Story Damn it! *MOe* *summoned* another demon {召} summon Koohii #1 A Geisha beckons you with her index finger, and as you approach she runs her fingers all over her body in an attempt to seduce you. Keyword meaning : “invite”. Koohii #2 I bet you all know the Maneki Neko, or beckoning cat, who with its raised fingers tries to seduce all good things (success, happiness and harmony) to its owner. Primitives beckon, finger, fingers, summon, seduce, sword, dagger, mouth 招き(まねき): invitation 招く(まねく): invite 招待(しょうたい): invite Kunyomi: まね.く Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 招く (まね.く)
clear the land Details Story Dictionary 拓 clear the land Heisig's Fingers . . . rocks. Koohii #1 A huge index finger coming down from the sky is kicking boulders of rock, clearing the land. Maybe it´s the finger of God preparing a place for his little people to live. Koohii #2 I imagine clearing the land in order to set up your tent after a long day of backpacking. Using your fingers, you pick up all of the rocks and get them out of the way so that you can get a comfortable night sleep. If you don´t clear the land you can just picture the rock sticking into your back as you toss and turn all night long. Primitives clear the land, finger, fingers, stone, rock 開拓(かいたく): reclamation (of wasteland), cultivation, pioneer Kunyomi: ひら.く Onyomi: タク Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	clear the land 拓 画数8 703 Details Story Dictionary 拓 clear the land Heisig's Fingers . . . rocks. Koohii #1 A huge index finger coming down from the sky is kicking boulders of rock, clearing the land. Maybe it´s the finger of God preparing a place for his little people to live. Koohii #2 I imagine clearing the land in order to set up your tent after a long day of backpacking. Using your fingers, you pick up all of the rocks and get them out of the way so that you can get a comfortable night sleep. If you don´t clear the land you can just picture the rock sticking into your back as you toss and turn all night long. Primitives clear the land, finger, fingers, stone, rock 開拓(かいたく): reclamation (of wasteland), cultivation, pioneer Kunyomi: ひら.く Onyomi: タク Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"clap Details Story Dictionary 拍 clap Heisig's Fingers . . . white. Koohii #1 (Image: the most snooty prim and proper English Lord with white gloves clapping only with his fingers. ""Oh bravo old chap. Bravo...""). Koohii #2 I clapped so hard, my fingers became white. Primitives clap, finger, fingers, white, dove 拍手(はくしゅ): clapping hands, applause Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハク、ヒョウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 拍手 (はくしゅ), 拍車 (はくしゃ), 一拍 (いっぱく)"	"clap 拍 画数8 704 Details Story Dictionary 拍 clap Heisig's Fingers . . . white. Koohii #1 (Image: the most snooty prim and proper English Lord with white gloves clapping only with his fingers. ""Oh bravo old chap. Bravo...""). Koohii #2 I clapped so hard, my fingers became white. Primitives clap, finger, fingers, white, dove 拍手(はくしゅ): clapping hands, applause Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハク、ヒョウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 拍手 (はくしゅ), 拍車 (はくしゃ), 一拍 (いっぱく)"
"strike Details Story Dictionary 打 strike Heisig's Finger . . . spike. Koohii #1 You´re using a hammer to drive a nail into a plank, but you miss and strike your fingers, ouch ! PS: the character does not mean ""to go on strike"", it will be very helpful in the long run to create images that convey the proper sense of the character! Koohii #2 My teacher used to strike my fingers with a street sign. Primitives strike, finger, fingers, street, nail, spike 打ち合わせ(うちあわせ): business meeting, previous arrangement, appointment 打ち合わせる(うちあわせる): to knock together, to arrange 打ち切る(うちきる): to stop, to abort, to discontinue, to close 打ち消し(うちけし): negation, denial, negative 打ち込む(うちこむ): to drive in (e.g. nail stake), to devote oneself to, to shoot into, to smash, to throw into, to cast into 打開(だかい): break in the deadlock 打撃(だげき): blow, shock, strike, damage, batting (baseball) 値打ち(ねうち): value, worth, price, dignity 打付ける(ぶつける): to knock, to run into, to nail on, to strike hard, to hit and attack 打合せ(うちあわせ): business meeting, appointment, previous arrangement 打ち消す(うちけす): deny, negate, contradict 打つ(ぶつ): hit, strike 打つ(うつ): hit, beat Kunyomi: う.つ、う.ち-、ぶ.つ Onyomi: ダ、ダアス Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 打つ (う.つ)"	"strike 打 画数5 705 Details Story Dictionary 打 strike Heisig's Finger . . . spike. Koohii #1 You´re using a hammer to drive a nail into a plank, but you miss and strike your fingers, ouch ! PS: the character does not mean ""to go on strike"", it will be very helpful in the long run to create images that convey the proper sense of the character! Koohii #2 My teacher used to strike my fingers with a street sign. Primitives strike, finger, fingers, street, nail, spike 打ち合わせ(うちあわせ): business meeting, previous arrangement, appointment 打ち合わせる(うちあわせる): to knock together, to arrange 打ち切る(うちきる): to stop, to abort, to discontinue, to close 打ち消し(うちけし): negation, denial, negative 打ち込む(うちこむ): to drive in (e.g. nail stake), to devote oneself to, to shoot into, to smash, to throw into, to cast into 打開(だかい): break in the deadlock 打撃(だげき): blow, shock, strike, damage, batting (baseball) 値打ち(ねうち): value, worth, price, dignity 打付ける(ぶつける): to knock, to run into, to nail on, to strike hard, to hit and attack 打合せ(うちあわせ): business meeting, appointment, previous arrangement 打ち消す(うちけす): deny, negate, contradict 打つ(ぶつ): hit, strike 打つ(うつ): hit, beat Kunyomi: う.つ、う.ち-、ぶ.つ Onyomi: ダ、ダアス Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 打つ (う.つ)"
"arrest Details Story Dictionary 拘 arrest Heisig's Fingers . . . phrase. Koohii #1 You approach the thief from behind, stick your finger at his back to fake a gun, and say the phrase ""You´re under arrest"". Koohii #2 Giving the police the finger and a colorful phrase is a surefire way to get arrested. Primitives arrest, finger, fingers, phrase, bound up, mouth 拘束(こうそく): restriction, restraint にも拘らず(にもかかわらず): in spite of, nevertheless Kunyomi: かか.わる Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"arrest 拘 画数8 706 Details Story Dictionary 拘 arrest Heisig's Fingers . . . phrase. Koohii #1 You approach the thief from behind, stick your finger at his back to fake a gun, and say the phrase ""You´re under arrest"". Koohii #2 Giving the police the finger and a colorful phrase is a surefire way to get arrested. Primitives arrest, finger, fingers, phrase, bound up, mouth 拘束(こうそく): restriction, restraint にも拘らず(にもかかわらず): in spite of, nevertheless Kunyomi: かか.わる Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
discard Details Story Dictionary 捨 discard Heisig's Fingers . . . cottage. Koohii #1 Someone stuck their fingers in my cottage cheese! I´m going to have to discard the lot! Koohii #2 The wicked witch from Hansel and Gretel only likes the meaty parts of kids. Outside her candy cottage, you can see a pile of discarded fingers. Primitives discard, finger, fingers, cottage, little-thatch, umbrella, lidded crock, earthenware jar, soil, dirt, ground, mouth 四捨五入(ししゃごにゅう): rounding up (especially fractions) 捨てる(すてる): throw Kunyomi: す.てる Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 捨てる (す.てる)	discard 捨 画数11 707 Details Story Dictionary 捨 discard Heisig's Fingers . . . cottage. Koohii #1 Someone stuck their fingers in my cottage cheese! I´m going to have to discard the lot! Koohii #2 The wicked witch from Hansel and Gretel only likes the meaty parts of kids. Outside her candy cottage, you can see a pile of discarded fingers. Primitives discard, finger, fingers, cottage, little-thatch, umbrella, lidded crock, earthenware jar, soil, dirt, ground, mouth 四捨五入(ししゃごにゅう): rounding up (especially fractions) 捨てる(すてる): throw Kunyomi: す.てる Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 捨てる (す.てる)
kidnap Details Story Dictionary 拐 kidnap Heisig's Finger . . . mouth . . . dagger. Koohii #1 Wrap your FINGERS around someone´s MOUTH to keep them quiet, then put the KNIFE to their throat to ensure their cooperation. This is the best way to KIDNAP someone. Koohii #2 After you beckon (#650) someone by seducing them, you kidnap them and hang them upside down (the reversed positions of seduce). Primitives kidnap, finger, fingers, mouth, sword, dagger 拐う(さらう): to carry off, to run away with, to kidnap, to abduct Kunyomi: Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	kidnap 拐 画数8 708 Details Story Dictionary 拐 kidnap Heisig's Finger . . . mouth . . . dagger. Koohii #1 Wrap your FINGERS around someone´s MOUTH to keep them quiet, then put the KNIFE to their throat to ensure their cooperation. This is the best way to KIDNAP someone. Koohii #2 After you beckon (#650) someone by seducing them, you kidnap them and hang them upside down (the reversed positions of seduce). Primitives kidnap, finger, fingers, mouth, sword, dagger 拐う(さらう): to carry off, to run away with, to kidnap, to abduct Kunyomi: Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"pinch Details Story Dictionary 摘 pinch Heisig's Finger . . . antique. Koohii #1 My grandma always pinched me with her fingers when i was playing with her antiques. Imagine her fingers, also quite antique, thin, bony and hard, pinching at your hand. ""Keep your fingers away from my antiques!!"". Koohii #2 >_ Primitives pinch, finger, fingers, antique, vase, stand up, hood, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 指摘(してき): pointing out, identification 摘む(つまむ): to pinch, to hold, to pick up Kunyomi: つ.む Onyomi: テキ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 摘む (つ.む)"	"pinch 摘 画数14 709 Details Story Dictionary 摘 pinch Heisig's Finger . . . antique. Koohii #1 My grandma always pinched me with her fingers when i was playing with her antiques. Imagine her fingers, also quite antique, thin, bony and hard, pinching at your hand. ""Keep your fingers away from my antiques!!"". Koohii #2 >_ Primitives pinch, finger, fingers, antique, vase, stand up, hood, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 指摘(してき): pointing out, identification 摘む(つまむ): to pinch, to hold, to pick up Kunyomi: つ.む Onyomi: テキ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 摘む (つ.む)"
"challenge Details Story Dictionary 挑 challenge Heisig's Fingers . . . portent. Koohii #1 Here comes a new challenge, try to kill Bowser, the giant Turtle using jut on finger. Koohii #2 You are sure to take a challenge because your victory was portended. So you stand self-confident before your foe, point a finger at him and say ""I will prevail, as was long portended!"". Primitives challenge, finger, fingers, turtle, portent 挑む(いどむ): to challenge, to contend for, to make love to 挑戦(ちょうせん): challenge, defiance Kunyomi: いど.む Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 挑む (いど.む)"	"challenge 挑 画数9 710 Details Story Dictionary 挑 challenge Heisig's Fingers . . . portent. Koohii #1 Here comes a new challenge, try to kill Bowser, the giant Turtle using jut on finger. Koohii #2 You are sure to take a challenge because your victory was portended. So you stand self-confident before your foe, point a finger at him and say ""I will prevail, as was long portended!"". Primitives challenge, finger, fingers, turtle, portent 挑む(いどむ): to challenge, to contend for, to make love to 挑戦(ちょうせん): challenge, defiance Kunyomi: いど.む Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 挑む (いど.む)"
"finger Details Story Dictionary 指 finger My Story *Mo* and *hi*s *sun* both have fingers and toes Koohii #1 Finger lickin´ delicious. Koohii #2 I remember this not as finger which has too many uses elsewhere but as ""fingering"" then its easy: fingering some delicious... Primitives finger, fingers, delicious, spoon, sitting on the ground, sun, day 指図(さしず): instruction, mandate 指す(さす): to point, put up umbrella, to play 指揮(しき): command, direction 指示(しじ): indication, instruction, directions 指摘(してき): pointing out, identification 指令(しれい): orders, instructions, directive 中指(ちゅうし): middle finger 指差す(ゆびさす): to point at 親指(おやゆび): thumb 薬指(くすりゆび): ring finger 小指(こゆび): little finger 指定(してい): designation, specification, assignment, pointing at 指導(しどう): leadership, guidance, coaching 中指(なかゆび): middle finger 人差指(ひとさしゆび): index finger 目指す(めざす): aim at, have an eye on 指(ゆび): finger 指輪(ゆびわ): ring Kunyomi: ゆび、さ.す、-さ.し Onyomi: シ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 指す (さ.す), 指 (ゆび)"	"finger 指 画数9 711 Details Story Dictionary 指 finger My Story *Mo* and *hi*s *sun* both have fingers and toes Koohii #1 Finger lickin´ delicious. Koohii #2 I remember this not as finger which has too many uses elsewhere but as ""fingering"" then its easy: fingering some delicious... Primitives finger, fingers, delicious, spoon, sitting on the ground, sun, day 指図(さしず): instruction, mandate 指す(さす): to point, put up umbrella, to play 指揮(しき): command, direction 指示(しじ): indication, instruction, directions 指摘(してき): pointing out, identification 指令(しれい): orders, instructions, directive 中指(ちゅうし): middle finger 指差す(ゆびさす): to point at 親指(おやゆび): thumb 薬指(くすりゆび): ring finger 小指(こゆび): little finger 指定(してい): designation, specification, assignment, pointing at 指導(しどう): leadership, guidance, coaching 中指(なかゆび): middle finger 人差指(ひとさしゆび): index finger 目指す(めざす): aim at, have an eye on 指(ゆび): finger 指輪(ゆびわ): ring Kunyomi: ゆび、さ.す、-さ.し Onyomi: シ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 指す (さ.す), 指 (ゆび)"
hold Details Story Dictionary 持 hold Heisig's Fingers . . . Buddhist temple. Koohii #1 At the BUDDHIST TEMPLE you´ll see wonderous things, such as the priest that can HOLD himself upside down with just a FINGER. Koohii #2 In Kyaiktiyo, there is rocking stone which sits on the edge of a cliff, and there is a Buddhist temple built on the top of it. You can rock the stone by pushing it with your finger, but it still holds in place. It´s true, see here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kyaiktiyo. Primitives hold, finger, fingers, Buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue 金持ち(かねもち): rich man 支持(しじ): support, maintenance 持続(じぞく): continuation 所持(しょじ): possession, owning 持ち(もち): hold, charge, keep possession, in charge, wear, durability, life, draw, usage (suff) 持ち切り(もちきり): hot topic, talk of the town 持て成す(もてなす): to entertain, to make welcome 持てる(もてる): to be well liked, to be popular 維持(いじ): maintenance, preservation 受け持つ(うけもつ): take (be in) charge of 持参(じさん): bringing, taking, carrying 持ち上げる(もちあげる): raise, lift up, flatter 気持ち(きもち): feelings 持つ(もつ): hold, carry, possess Kunyomi: も.つ、-も.ち、も.てる Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 持つ (も.つ)	hold 持 画数9 712 Details Story Dictionary 持 hold Heisig's Fingers . . . Buddhist temple. Koohii #1 At the BUDDHIST TEMPLE you´ll see wonderous things, such as the priest that can HOLD himself upside down with just a FINGER. Koohii #2 In Kyaiktiyo, there is rocking stone which sits on the edge of a cliff, and there is a Buddhist temple built on the top of it. You can rock the stone by pushing it with your finger, but it still holds in place. It´s true, see here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kyaiktiyo. Primitives hold, finger, fingers, Buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue 金持ち(かねもち): rich man 支持(しじ): support, maintenance 持続(じぞく): continuation 所持(しょじ): possession, owning 持ち(もち): hold, charge, keep possession, in charge, wear, durability, life, draw, usage (suff) 持ち切り(もちきり): hot topic, talk of the town 持て成す(もてなす): to entertain, to make welcome 持てる(もてる): to be well liked, to be popular 維持(いじ): maintenance, preservation 受け持つ(うけもつ): take (be in) charge of 持参(じさん): bringing, taking, carrying 持ち上げる(もちあげる): raise, lift up, flatter 気持ち(きもち): feelings 持つ(もつ): hold, carry, possess Kunyomi: も.つ、-も.ち、も.てる Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 持つ (も.つ)
imminent Details Story Dictionary 拶 imminent Heisig's Fingers . . . flood . . . evening. Koohii #1 The old lady said that there was a flood imminent, because her fingers hurt in the evening. Koohii #2 The Dutch boy put his finger in the dam holding back imminent danger from flood waters until evening. Primitives imminent, finger, fingers, stream, flood, evening 挨拶(あいさつ): greeting Kunyomi: せま.る Onyomi: サツ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	imminent 拶 画数9 713 Details Story Dictionary 拶 imminent Heisig's Fingers . . . flood . . . evening. Koohii #1 The old lady said that there was a flood imminent, because her fingers hurt in the evening. Koohii #2 The Dutch boy put his finger in the dam holding back imminent danger from flood waters until evening. Primitives imminent, finger, fingers, stream, flood, evening 挨拶(あいさつ): greeting Kunyomi: せま.る Onyomi: サツ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
fasten Details Story Dictionary 括 fasten Heisig's Finger . . . tongue. Koohii #1 Teacher was always telling us to fasten our lips by pulling a zipper shut with our fingers. It always frightened me because I imagined getting my tongue stuck in the zipper. Koohii #2 On the plane, you refuse to FASTEN your seatbelt and even go so far as to give the stewardess the finger and stick out your tongue at her. The crew comes and pins you down and forces you to FASTEN it. Primitives fasten, finger, fingers, tongue, thousand, mouth 一括(いっかつ): all together, batch, one lump, one bundle, summing up 括弧(かっこ): parenthesis, brackets Kunyomi: くく.る Onyomi: カツ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	fasten 括 画数9 714 Details Story Dictionary 括 fasten Heisig's Finger . . . tongue. Koohii #1 Teacher was always telling us to fasten our lips by pulling a zipper shut with our fingers. It always frightened me because I imagined getting my tongue stuck in the zipper. Koohii #2 On the plane, you refuse to FASTEN your seatbelt and even go so far as to give the stewardess the finger and stick out your tongue at her. The crew comes and pins you down and forces you to FASTEN it. Primitives fasten, finger, fingers, tongue, thousand, mouth 一括(いっかつ): all together, batch, one lump, one bundle, summing up 括弧(かっこ): parenthesis, brackets Kunyomi: くく.る Onyomi: カツ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"brandish Details Story Dictionary 揮 brandish Heisig's Finger . . . chariot. Koohii #1 A military leader in his chariot is brandishing his finger at the enemy, crying ""chaaaaaaaaarrrgggeeee!"". Koohii #2 Think of the movie Gladiator but instead Maximus is brandishing a giant foam brand name (nike, rebok, adidas, whatever) finger like you see at a baseball game. He´s riding in a chariot using the foam finger to kill his enemy. Primitives brandish, finger, fingers, army, chariot, crown, car, vehicle 指揮(しき): command, direction 発揮(はっき): exhibition, demonstration, utilization, display Kunyomi: ふる.う Onyomi: キ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"brandish 揮 画数12 715 Details Story Dictionary 揮 brandish Heisig's Finger . . . chariot. Koohii #1 A military leader in his chariot is brandishing his finger at the enemy, crying ""chaaaaaaaaarrrgggeeee!"". Koohii #2 Think of the movie Gladiator but instead Maximus is brandishing a giant foam brand name (nike, rebok, adidas, whatever) finger like you see at a baseball game. He´s riding in a chariot using the foam finger to kill his enemy. Primitives brandish, finger, fingers, army, chariot, crown, car, vehicle 指揮(しき): command, direction 発揮(はっき): exhibition, demonstration, utilization, display Kunyomi: ふる.う Onyomi: キ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
conjecture Details Story Dictionary 推 conjecture Heisig's Fingers . . . turkey. Koohii #1 In mathematics, a conjecture is a mathematical statement which has been proposed as a true statement, but which no one has yet been able to prove or disprove. Have you heard of the Finger-Turkey conjecture ? It states that if turkeys had fingers, they would be able to count. Be sure to imagine a turkey with fingers at the tip of its wings, counting from one to ten. Koohii #2 In the midst of conjecture on whether it was done or not, mom stuck her fingers in the turkey to check. Primitives conjecture, finger, fingers, turkey 推進(すいしん): propulsion, driving force 推測(すいそく): guess, conjecture 推理(すいり): reasoning, inference, mystery or detective genre (movie novel etc.) 類推(るいすい): analogy 推薦(すいせん): recommendation 推定(すいてい): presumption, assumption, estimation Kunyomi: お.す Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 推す (お.す)	conjecture 推 画数11 716 Details Story Dictionary 推 conjecture Heisig's Fingers . . . turkey. Koohii #1 In mathematics, a conjecture is a mathematical statement which has been proposed as a true statement, but which no one has yet been able to prove or disprove. Have you heard of the Finger-Turkey conjecture ? It states that if turkeys had fingers, they would be able to count. Be sure to imagine a turkey with fingers at the tip of its wings, counting from one to ten. Koohii #2 In the midst of conjecture on whether it was done or not, mom stuck her fingers in the turkey to check. Primitives conjecture, finger, fingers, turkey 推進(すいしん): propulsion, driving force 推測(すいそく): guess, conjecture 推理(すいり): reasoning, inference, mystery or detective genre (movie novel etc.) 類推(るいすい): analogy 推薦(すいせん): recommendation 推定(すいてい): presumption, assumption, estimation Kunyomi: お.す Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 推す (お.す)
hoist (deep fat fry) Details Story Dictionary 揚 hoist (deep fat fry) My Story *Mo* *easily* {易} hoisted the thing below the sun Koohii #1 My piggy bank is so heavy that I cannot HOIST it using just my fingers. Koohii #2 Picture a major robbery where some dudes are breaking into a bank to steal their money. They get their man in the vault through the ceiling - now he´s hanging from a rope a few feet from the ground (like in the movies, dodging laser beams). He reports back that he has found the loot, and its all in a large piggy bank in the center of the vault. The alarm sounds and he´s got to think fast. He jams the four fingers of his right hand in the piggy bank slot and tells his team to hoist him up, he´s got the loot! Primitives hoist, finger, fingers, piggy bank, sun, day, piglets Kunyomi: あ.げる、-あ.げ、あ.がる Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 揚がる (あ.がる), 揚げる (あ.げる)	hoist (deep fat fry) 揚 画数12 717 Details Story Dictionary 揚 hoist (deep fat fry) My Story *Mo* *easily* {易} hoisted the thing below the sun Koohii #1 My piggy bank is so heavy that I cannot HOIST it using just my fingers. Koohii #2 Picture a major robbery where some dudes are breaking into a bank to steal their money. They get their man in the vault through the ceiling - now he´s hanging from a rope a few feet from the ground (like in the movies, dodging laser beams). He reports back that he has found the loot, and its all in a large piggy bank in the center of the vault. The alarm sounds and he´s got to think fast. He jams the four fingers of his right hand in the piggy bank slot and tells his team to hoist him up, he´s got the loot! Primitives hoist, finger, fingers, piggy bank, sun, day, piglets Kunyomi: あ.げる、-あ.げ、あ.がる Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 揚がる (あ.がる), 揚げる (あ.げる)
propose Details Story Dictionary 提 propose Heisig's Fingers . . . just so. Koohii #1 When a man PROPOSES to a lady, he takes her FINGER and places the ring on it JUST SO, and the moment sweeps her away. Koohii #2 I tried to propose to my girlfriend, but the ring was too small to fit her finger. Instead of saying yes, she just uttered an annoyed sigh. So I rushed to the jeweler where he made it bigger. But now it was too big, so I rushed back to make it smaller. This spiel kept going on until the ring was finally just so. Her eyes lit up and she said yes. Primitives propose, finger, fingers, just so, sun, day, mend 前提(ぜんてい): preamble, premise, reason, prerequisite 提供(ていきょう): offer, tender, program sponsoring, furnishing 提携(ていけい): cooperation, tie-up, joint business, link-up 提示(ていじ): presentation, exhibit, suggest, citation 提案(ていあん): proposal, proposition, suggestion 提出(ていしゅつ): presentation, submission, filing Kunyomi: さ.げる Onyomi: テイ、チョウ、ダイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 提げる (さ.げる)	propose 提 画数12 718 Details Story Dictionary 提 propose Heisig's Fingers . . . just so. Koohii #1 When a man PROPOSES to a lady, he takes her FINGER and places the ring on it JUST SO, and the moment sweeps her away. Koohii #2 I tried to propose to my girlfriend, but the ring was too small to fit her finger. Instead of saying yes, she just uttered an annoyed sigh. So I rushed to the jeweler where he made it bigger. But now it was too big, so I rushed back to make it smaller. This spiel kept going on until the ring was finally just so. Her eyes lit up and she said yes. Primitives propose, finger, fingers, just so, sun, day, mend 前提(ぜんてい): preamble, premise, reason, prerequisite 提供(ていきょう): offer, tender, program sponsoring, furnishing 提携(ていけい): cooperation, tie-up, joint business, link-up 提示(ていじ): presentation, exhibit, suggest, citation 提案(ていあん): proposal, proposition, suggestion 提出(ていしゅつ): presentation, submission, filing Kunyomi: さ.げる Onyomi: テイ、チョウ、ダイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 提げる (さ.げる)
"damage Details Story Dictionary 損 damage Heisig's Finger . . . employee. Koohii #1 Boss yells, ""Who damaged the Xerox machine?!"" fingers of employees point at one another. Koohii #2 If you finger your employee, you risk incurring many damages from a possible sexual harassment lawsuit. Primitives damage, finger, fingers, employee, mouth, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 損なう(そこなう): to harm, to hurt, to injure, to damage, to fail in doing 損失(そんしつ): loss 破損(はそん): damage 損(そん): loss, disadvantage 損害(そんがい): damage, injury, loss 損得(そんとく): loss and gain, advantage and disadvantage Kunyomi: そこ.なう、そこな.う、-そこ.なう、そこ.ねる、-そこ.ねる Onyomi: ソン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 損なう (そこ.なう), 損ねる (そこ.ねる)"	"damage 損 画数13 719 Details Story Dictionary 損 damage Heisig's Finger . . . employee. Koohii #1 Boss yells, ""Who damaged the Xerox machine?!"" fingers of employees point at one another. Koohii #2 If you finger your employee, you risk incurring many damages from a possible sexual harassment lawsuit. Primitives damage, finger, fingers, employee, mouth, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 損なう(そこなう): to harm, to hurt, to injure, to damage, to fail in doing 損失(そんしつ): loss 破損(はそん): damage 損(そん): loss, disadvantage 損害(そんがい): damage, injury, loss 損得(そんとく): loss and gain, advantage and disadvantage Kunyomi: そこ.なう、そこな.う、-そこ.なう、そこ.ねる、-そこ.ねる Onyomi: ソン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 損なう (そこ.なう), 損ねる (そこ.ねる)"
pick up Details Story Dictionary 拾 pick up My Story *Mo* did not *fit* into the clothes he picked up Koohii #1 I tried to PICK UP the bowling ball...but my FINGERS didn´t FIT in the holes. Koohii #2 Try PICKING UP a girl by trying to FIT your FINGER in you know what... let me know how that works. Primitives pick up, finger, fingers, fit, meeting, umbrella, one, mouth 拾う(ひろう): pick up Kunyomi: ひろ.う Onyomi: シュウ、ジュウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 拾得 (しゅうとく), 収拾 (しゅうしゅう), 拾う (ひろ.う)	pick up 拾 画数9 720 Details Story Dictionary 拾 pick up My Story *Mo* did not *fit* into the clothes he picked up Koohii #1 I tried to PICK UP the bowling ball...but my FINGERS didn´t FIT in the holes. Koohii #2 Try PICKING UP a girl by trying to FIT your FINGER in you know what... let me know how that works. Primitives pick up, finger, fingers, fit, meeting, umbrella, one, mouth 拾う(ひろう): pick up Kunyomi: ひろ.う Onyomi: シュウ、ジュウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 拾得 (しゅうとく), 収拾 (しゅうしゅう), 拾う (ひろ.う)
shouldering Details Story Dictionary 担 shouldering Heisig's The key word of this frame refers to shouldering a burden of some sort. Its elements are: fingers . . . nightbreak. Koohii #1 One of Hercules´ labors was to hold the world in his fingers for Atlas and not move until nightbreak, shouldering the considerable burden. Koohii #2 One of the classic stories of shouldering a heavy burden is that of the kid who had to stick his finger on a dam until nightbreak to prevent it from breaking down. Primitives shouldering, finger, fingers, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor 担架(たんか): stretcher, litter 担う(になう): to carry on shoulder, to bear (burden), to shoulder (gun) 負担(ふたん): burden, charge, responsibility 分担(ぶんたん): apportionment, sharing 担ぐ(かつぐ): carry on shoulder 担当(たんとう): (in) charge Kunyomi: かつ.ぐ、にな.う Onyomi: タン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 担ぐ (かつ.ぐ), 担う (にな.う)	shouldering 担 画数8 721 Details Story Dictionary 担 shouldering Heisig's The key word of this frame refers to shouldering a burden of some sort. Its elements are: fingers . . . nightbreak. Koohii #1 One of Hercules´ labors was to hold the world in his fingers for Atlas and not move until nightbreak, shouldering the considerable burden. Koohii #2 One of the classic stories of shouldering a heavy burden is that of the kid who had to stick his finger on a dam until nightbreak to prevent it from breaking down. Primitives shouldering, finger, fingers, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor 担架(たんか): stretcher, litter 担う(になう): to carry on shoulder, to bear (burden), to shoulder (gun) 負担(ふたん): burden, charge, responsibility 分担(ぶんたん): apportionment, sharing 担ぐ(かつぐ): carry on shoulder 担当(たんとう): (in) charge Kunyomi: かつ.ぐ、にな.う Onyomi: タン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 担ぐ (かつ.ぐ), 担う (にな.う)
foothold Details Story Dictionary 拠 foothold Heisig's Fingers . . . dispose. Koohii #1 When rockclimbing, when your weight disposes of the valuble foothold, all that´s left is your fingers keeping you from death. Meanwhile, your walking legs are left dangling in the wind. Koohii #2 Once you have a good foothold, you can dispose of your fingerhold. Primitives foothold, finger, fingers, dispose, walking legs, wind 根拠(こんきょ): basis, foundation 証拠(しょうこ): evidence, proof Kunyomi: よ.る Onyomi: キョ、コ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 拠点 (きょてん), 占拠 (せんきょ), 根拠 (こんきょ)	foothold 拠 画数8 722 Details Story Dictionary 拠 foothold Heisig's Fingers . . . dispose. Koohii #1 When rockclimbing, when your weight disposes of the valuble foothold, all that´s left is your fingers keeping you from death. Meanwhile, your walking legs are left dangling in the wind. Koohii #2 Once you have a good foothold, you can dispose of your fingerhold. Primitives foothold, finger, fingers, dispose, walking legs, wind 根拠(こんきょ): basis, foundation 証拠(しょうこ): evidence, proof Kunyomi: よ.る Onyomi: キョ、コ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 拠点 (きょてん), 占拠 (せんきょ), 根拠 (こんきょ)
"sketch Details Story Dictionary 描 sketch Heisig's Fingers . . . seedling. Koohii #1 A sketch is a seedling (#234) of things to come. Before the assault, the sergeant draws a sketch of the attack with his fingers in the sand. Koohii #2 I´m bad at drawing, so when I try to sketch the kanji for cat, you can sort of recognize it, but I don´t get the curve of the ""wild dogs"" just right. Primitives sketch, finger, fingers, seedlings, flowers, rice field, brains 描写(びょうしゃ): depiction, description, portrayal 描く(えがく): draw, paint, sketch, depict, describe Kunyomi: えが.く、か.く Onyomi: ビョウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 描く (えが.く)"	"sketch 描 画数11 723 Details Story Dictionary 描 sketch Heisig's Fingers . . . seedling. Koohii #1 A sketch is a seedling (#234) of things to come. Before the assault, the sergeant draws a sketch of the attack with his fingers in the sand. Koohii #2 I´m bad at drawing, so when I try to sketch the kanji for cat, you can sort of recognize it, but I don´t get the curve of the ""wild dogs"" just right. Primitives sketch, finger, fingers, seedlings, flowers, rice field, brains 描写(びょうしゃ): depiction, description, portrayal 描く(えがく): draw, paint, sketch, depict, describe Kunyomi: えが.く、か.く Onyomi: ビョウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 描く (えが.く)"
"maneuver Details Story Dictionary 操 maneuver Heisig's Fingers . . . goods . . . tree. Koohii #1 Tip: goods + wood/tree : This combination of primitives appears four times in Heisig, so it´s worthwhile giving it a name. I suggest ""furniture"" (a common type of wooden goods). REF: parch (#215) , maneuver (FRAME 671), winding (#1369), seaweed (#2035). Story: Using just a finger you are trying to maneuver your furniture round your room. Koohii #2 Luke skywalker points his fingers and uses the force to maneuver the goods through the tree branches and up over the tree. Primitives maneuver, finger, fingers, wooden goods, furniture, goods, mouth, tree, wood, mouth3 操る(あやつる): to manipulate, to operate, to pull strings 操縦(そうじゅう): management, handling, control, manipulation 操作(そうさ): operation, management, processing 体操(たいそう): gymnastics, physical exercises, calisthenics Kunyomi: みさお、あやつ.る Onyomi: ソウ、サン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 操る (あやつ.る), 操 (みさお)"	"maneuver 操 画数16 724 Details Story Dictionary 操 maneuver Heisig's Fingers . . . goods . . . tree. Koohii #1 Tip: goods + wood/tree : This combination of primitives appears four times in Heisig, so it´s worthwhile giving it a name. I suggest ""furniture"" (a common type of wooden goods). REF: parch (#215) , maneuver (FRAME 671), winding (#1369), seaweed (#2035). Story: Using just a finger you are trying to maneuver your furniture round your room. Koohii #2 Luke skywalker points his fingers and uses the force to maneuver the goods through the tree branches and up over the tree. Primitives maneuver, finger, fingers, wooden goods, furniture, goods, mouth, tree, wood, mouth3 操る(あやつる): to manipulate, to operate, to pull strings 操縦(そうじゅう): management, handling, control, manipulation 操作(そうさ): operation, management, processing 体操(たいそう): gymnastics, physical exercises, calisthenics Kunyomi: みさお、あやつ.る Onyomi: ソウ、サン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 操る (あやつ.る), 操 (みさお)"
touch Details Story Dictionary 接 touch Heisig's Fingers . . . vase . . . woman. Koohii #1 A pervert meets a woman. The pervert tries to touch the women with his lustful fingers. The woman takes a vase, lifts it over her head and smashes it on the pervert´s head... Koohii #2 CHIKAN!! These are the perverts who use their fingers to touch standing women on crowded trains. Primitives touch, finger, fingers, concubine, vase, stand up, woman 接触(せっしょく): touch, contact 接続詞(せつぞくし): conjunction 接ぐ(つぐ): to join, to piece together, to set (bones), to graft (trees) 密接(みっせつ): related, connected, close, intimate 応接(おうせつ): reception 間接(かんせつ): indirectness 接近(せっきん): getting closer, approaching 接する(せっする): come in contact with, connect, attend, receive 接続(せつぞく): connection, union, join, link, changing trains 直接(ちょくせつ): direct, immediate, personal, firsthand 面接(めんせつ): interview Kunyomi: つ.ぐ Onyomi: セツ、ショウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 接ぐ (つ.ぐ)	touch 接 画数11 725 Details Story Dictionary 接 touch Heisig's Fingers . . . vase . . . woman. Koohii #1 A pervert meets a woman. The pervert tries to touch the women with his lustful fingers. The woman takes a vase, lifts it over her head and smashes it on the pervert´s head... Koohii #2 CHIKAN!! These are the perverts who use their fingers to touch standing women on crowded trains. Primitives touch, finger, fingers, concubine, vase, stand up, woman 接触(せっしょく): touch, contact 接続詞(せつぞくし): conjunction 接ぐ(つぐ): to join, to piece together, to set (bones), to graft (trees) 密接(みっせつ): related, connected, close, intimate 応接(おうせつ): reception 間接(かんせつ): indirectness 接近(せっきん): getting closer, approaching 接する(せっする): come in contact with, connect, attend, receive 接続(せつぞく): connection, union, join, link, changing trains 直接(ちょくせつ): direct, immediate, personal, firsthand 面接(めんせつ): interview Kunyomi: つ.ぐ Onyomi: セツ、ショウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 接ぐ (つ.ぐ)
"put up a notice Details Story Dictionary 掲 put up a notice Heisig's Fingers . . . siesta. Koohii #1 A muchacho puts up a notice that says “NO FINGER SNAPPING ALLOWED. MUCHACHOS ON SIESTA”. The muchachos are sleeping soundly, completely oblivious to the sound of dogs barking, guitar playing and even gun shots. Now imagine one tourist passing by and snapping his fingers and waking up all the muchachos at once. Koohii #2 Just as I was finished putting up a ""no siestas"" notice on my property, a muchacho gave me the finger, sat down, and promptly fell asleep. Primitives put up (a notice), finger, fingers, mexican bandit, muchacho, siesta, sun, day, aroma, bound up, spoon, sitting on the ground 掲げる(かかげる): to publish, to print, to carry (an article), to put up, to hang out, to hoist, to fly (a sail), to float (a flag) 掲載(けいさい): appearance (e.g. article in paper) 掲示(けいじ): notice, bulletin Kunyomi: かか.げる Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 掲げる (かか.げる)"	"put up a notice 掲 画数11 726 Details Story Dictionary 掲 put up a notice Heisig's Fingers . . . siesta. Koohii #1 A muchacho puts up a notice that says “NO FINGER SNAPPING ALLOWED. MUCHACHOS ON SIESTA”. The muchachos are sleeping soundly, completely oblivious to the sound of dogs barking, guitar playing and even gun shots. Now imagine one tourist passing by and snapping his fingers and waking up all the muchachos at once. Koohii #2 Just as I was finished putting up a ""no siestas"" notice on my property, a muchacho gave me the finger, sat down, and promptly fell asleep. Primitives put up (a notice), finger, fingers, mexican bandit, muchacho, siesta, sun, day, aroma, bound up, spoon, sitting on the ground 掲げる(かかげる): to publish, to print, to carry (an article), to put up, to hang out, to hoist, to fly (a sail), to float (a flag) 掲載(けいさい): appearance (e.g. article in paper) 掲示(けいじ): notice, bulletin Kunyomi: かか.げる Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 掲げる (かか.げる)"
hang Details Story Dictionary 掛 hang Heisig's Fingers . . . ivy . . . magic wand. Koohii #1 Think RPG. The wizard points his finger to the guard and the ivy he has just animated with his magic wand climbs down the wall to hang the poor guy, opening the way for the adventurers into the dungeon. Koohii #2 3 ways you could hang something: 1) the normal way, with your finger putting something on a hook or whatever, 2) hanging from a vine the natural way, or 3) by means of the magic of the wand. Primitives hang, finger, fingers, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, magic wand, augury, soil2, dirt2, ground2 掛かる(かかる): take (time), need, cost 掛け(かけ): credit 切っ掛け(きっかけ): chance, start, cue, excuse, motive, impetus, occasion 心掛け(こころがけ): readiness, intention, aim 心掛ける(こころがける): to bear in mind, to aim to do 差し掛かる(さしかかる): to come near to, to approach 仕掛け(しかけ): device, trick, mechanism, gadget, (small) scale, half finished, commencement, set up, challenge 仕掛ける(しかける): to commence, to lay (mines), to set (traps), to wage (war), to challenge 手掛かり(てがかり): contact, trail, scent, on hand, hand hold, clue, key 手掛ける(てがける): to handle, to manage, to work with, to rear, to look after, to have experience with 引っ掛ける(ひっかける): to hang (something) on (something), to throw on (clothes), to hook, to catch, to trap, to ensnare, to cheat, to evade payment, to jump a bill, to drink (alcohol), to spit at (a person), to hit the ball off the end of the bat (baseball) 見掛ける(みかける): to (happen to) see, to notice, to catch sight of 寄り掛かる(よりかかる): to lean against, to recline on, to lean on, to rely on 追い掛ける(おいかける): pursue, chase お出掛け(おでかけ): about to start out, just about to leave or go out お目に掛かる(おめにかかる): to see or meet someone 思い掛けない(おもいがけない): unexpected, casual 掛け算(かけざん): multiplication 掛ける(かける): wear, put on, hang, cover, sit down, make a phone call, multiply, turn on (a switch), play (a record), begin to 腰掛け(こしかけ): seat, bench 腰掛ける(こしかける): sit (down) 出掛ける(でかける): depart, set out, start, be going out 通り掛かる(とおりかかる): happen to pass by 話し掛ける(はなしかける): accost a person, talk (to someone) 引っ掛かる(ひっかかる): be caught in, be stuck in, be cheated 見掛け(みかけ): outward appearance 呼び掛ける(よびかける): call out to, accost, address (crowd), make an appeal Kunyomi: か.ける、-か.ける、か.け、-か.け、-が.け、か.かる、-か.かる、-が.かる、か.かり、-が.かり、かかり、-がかり Onyomi: カイ、ケイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 掛かる (か.かる), 掛ける (か.ける), 掛 (かかり)	hang 掛 画数11 727 Details Story Dictionary 掛 hang Heisig's Fingers . . . ivy . . . magic wand. Koohii #1 Think RPG. The wizard points his finger to the guard and the ivy he has just animated with his magic wand climbs down the wall to hang the poor guy, opening the way for the adventurers into the dungeon. Koohii #2 3 ways you could hang something: 1) the normal way, with your finger putting something on a hook or whatever, 2) hanging from a vine the natural way, or 3) by means of the magic of the wand. Primitives hang, finger, fingers, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, magic wand, augury, soil2, dirt2, ground2 掛かる(かかる): take (time), need, cost 掛け(かけ): credit 切っ掛け(きっかけ): chance, start, cue, excuse, motive, impetus, occasion 心掛け(こころがけ): readiness, intention, aim 心掛ける(こころがける): to bear in mind, to aim to do 差し掛かる(さしかかる): to come near to, to approach 仕掛け(しかけ): device, trick, mechanism, gadget, (small) scale, half finished, commencement, set up, challenge 仕掛ける(しかける): to commence, to lay (mines), to set (traps), to wage (war), to challenge 手掛かり(てがかり): contact, trail, scent, on hand, hand hold, clue, key 手掛ける(てがける): to handle, to manage, to work with, to rear, to look after, to have experience with 引っ掛ける(ひっかける): to hang (something) on (something), to throw on (clothes), to hook, to catch, to trap, to ensnare, to cheat, to evade payment, to jump a bill, to drink (alcohol), to spit at (a person), to hit the ball off the end of the bat (baseball) 見掛ける(みかける): to (happen to) see, to notice, to catch sight of 寄り掛かる(よりかかる): to lean against, to recline on, to lean on, to rely on 追い掛ける(おいかける): pursue, chase お出掛け(おでかけ): about to start out, just about to leave or go out お目に掛かる(おめにかかる): to see or meet someone 思い掛けない(おもいがけない): unexpected, casual 掛け算(かけざん): multiplication 掛ける(かける): wear, put on, hang, cover, sit down, make a phone call, multiply, turn on (a switch), play (a record), begin to 腰掛け(こしかけ): seat, bench 腰掛ける(こしかける): sit (down) 出掛ける(でかける): depart, set out, start, be going out 通り掛かる(とおりかかる): happen to pass by 話し掛ける(はなしかける): accost a person, talk (to someone) 引っ掛かる(ひっかかる): be caught in, be stuck in, be cheated 見掛け(みかけ): outward appearance 呼び掛ける(よびかける): call out to, accost, address (crowd), make an appeal Kunyomi: か.ける、-か.ける、か.け、-か.け、-が.け、か.かる、-か.かる、-が.かる、か.かり、-が.かり、かかり、-がかり Onyomi: カイ、ケイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 掛かる (か.かる), 掛ける (か.ける), 掛 (かかり)
make headway Details Story Dictionary 捗 make headway Heisig's Let your fingers do the walking as you make headway through the Yellow Pages in search of something hard to find. Koohii #1 Come on people, the only way to make headway in this business is to let your fingers do the walking! bust out the yellow pages and dial as many numbers as possible, surely someone is a sucker for a cold call sell. Koohii #2 Thing from the Addams Family has difficulties in making headway because, well, he has no head. Only walking fingers. Primitives make headway, finger, fingers, walk, stop, footprint, few 捗る(はかどる): to make progress, to move right ahead (with the work), to advance Kunyomi: はかど.る Onyomi: チョク、ホ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	make headway 捗 画数11 728 Details Story Dictionary 捗 make headway Heisig's Let your fingers do the walking as you make headway through the Yellow Pages in search of something hard to find. Koohii #1 Come on people, the only way to make headway in this business is to let your fingers do the walking! bust out the yellow pages and dial as many numbers as possible, surely someone is a sucker for a cold call sell. Koohii #2 Thing from the Addams Family has difficulties in making headway because, well, he has no head. Only walking fingers. Primitives make headway, finger, fingers, walk, stop, footprint, few 捗る(はかどる): to make progress, to move right ahead (with the work), to advance Kunyomi: はかど.る Onyomi: チョク、ホ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
"polish Details Story Dictionary 研 polish My Story [Stone + ""A""/Both hands {开}] The connotation of ""polish"" here is as in refining skills; polishing your skills; etc... So for a story, think more like a *stone* being polished by *both your hands* (with an abstract stone of knowledge). This kanji is for the most part just used in けんきゅう [研究] (n, vs) study, research, investigation. Koohii #1 My stones are so huge that it takes two hands to polish them! Koohii #2 You use two hands to polish a stone: one to hold it and the other to rub it. Primitives polish, stone, rock, two hands 研ぐ(とぐ): to sharpen, to grind, to scour, to hone, to polish, to wash (rice) 研修(けんしゅう): training 研究(けんきゅう): study, research 研究室(けんきゅうしつ): study (room) Kunyomi: と.ぐ Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 研ぐ (と.ぐ)"	"polish 研 画数9 729 Details Story Dictionary 研 polish My Story [Stone + ""A""/Both hands {开}] The connotation of ""polish"" here is as in refining skills; polishing your skills; etc... So for a story, think more like a *stone* being polished by *both your hands* (with an abstract stone of knowledge). This kanji is for the most part just used in けんきゅう [研究] (n, vs) study, research, investigation. Koohii #1 My stones are so huge that it takes two hands to polish them! Koohii #2 You use two hands to polish a stone: one to hold it and the other to rub it. Primitives polish, stone, rock, two hands 研ぐ(とぐ): to sharpen, to grind, to scour, to hone, to polish, to wash (rice) 研修(けんしゅう): training 研究(けんきゅう): study, research 研究室(けんきゅうしつ): study (room) Kunyomi: と.ぐ Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 研ぐ (と.ぐ)"
"commandment Details Story Dictionary 戒 commandment Heisig's Two hands . . . fiesta. Koohii #1 Two hands, fiesta.....when moses received the ten commandments with two hands, he went back down the mountain and threw a fiesta with the jews, celebrating the arrival of the commandments. Koohii #2 When Moses returned with the commandments in his hands he saw that his people were throwing a fiesta. At first he was excited. Then he looked around and got pissed. ""Awww, c´mon guys. Golden idols? Really?"". Primitives commandment, two hands, fiesta 警戒(けいかい): warning, admonition, vigilance Kunyomi: いまし.める Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 戒める (いまし.める)"	"commandment 戒 画数7 730 Details Story Dictionary 戒 commandment Heisig's Two hands . . . fiesta. Koohii #1 Two hands, fiesta.....when moses received the ten commandments with two hands, he went back down the mountain and threw a fiesta with the jews, celebrating the arrival of the commandments. Koohii #2 When Moses returned with the commandments in his hands he saw that his people were throwing a fiesta. At first he was excited. Then he looked around and got pissed. ""Awww, c´mon guys. Golden idols? Really?"". Primitives commandment, two hands, fiesta 警戒(けいかい): warning, admonition, vigilance Kunyomi: いまし.める Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 戒める (いまし.める)"
tinker with Details Story Dictionary 弄 tinker with Heisig's Jewel . . . two hands. Koohii #1 The king used both hands to tinker with himself in his spare time. Koohii #2 Picture the king holding a large pan in his two hands and tinkering with it, wishing he could lead the itinerant life of a tinker. As a rhyme: The king, he uses his two hands, To tinker with his pots and pans . . . Primitives tinker with, king, jewel, ball, two hands 弄る(いじる): to touch, to tamper with Kunyomi: いじく.る、ろう.する、いじ.る、ひねく.る、たわむ.れる、もてあそ.ぶ Onyomi: ロウ、ル Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 弄ぶ (もてあそ.ぶ)	tinker with 弄 画数7 731 Details Story Dictionary 弄 tinker with Heisig's Jewel . . . two hands. Koohii #1 The king used both hands to tinker with himself in his spare time. Koohii #2 Picture the king holding a large pan in his two hands and tinkering with it, wishing he could lead the itinerant life of a tinker. As a rhyme: The king, he uses his two hands, To tinker with his pots and pans . . . Primitives tinker with, king, jewel, ball, two hands 弄る(いじる): to touch, to tamper with Kunyomi: いじく.る、ろう.する、いじ.る、ひねく.る、たわむ.れる、もてあそ.ぶ Onyomi: ロウ、ル Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 弄ぶ (もてあそ.ぶ)
contraption Details Story Dictionary 械 contraption Heisig's Tree . . . commandment. Koohii #1 The ten commandments were heavy. So to help carry them, Moses made a wooden contraption; the ark of the covenant. Koohii #2 Think of a complex wooden contraption capable of giving you a two-handed fiesta. Primitives contraption, tree, wood, commandments, two hands, fiesta 器械(きかい): instrument 機械(きかい): machine, mechanism Kunyomi: かせ Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	contraption 械 画数11 732 Details Story Dictionary 械 contraption Heisig's Tree . . . commandment. Koohii #1 The ten commandments were heavy. So to help carry them, Moses made a wooden contraption; the ark of the covenant. Koohii #2 Think of a complex wooden contraption capable of giving you a two-handed fiesta. Primitives contraption, tree, wood, commandments, two hands, fiesta 器械(きかい): instrument 機械(きかい): machine, mechanism Kunyomi: かせ Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
nose Details Story Dictionary 鼻 nose My Story You cant stop snorting all the *H* (Heroin) from *your* own {自} *fields*, can you Koohii #1 An Egyptian embalmer reaching both hands into the dead pharaoh´s nose and yanking out handfuls of brain. Koohii #2 I sneezed so hard that through my NOSE I blew out my BRAINS into BOTH HANDS. Primitives nose, drop, eye, rice field, brains, two hands 耳鼻科(じびか): otolaryngology 鼻(はな): nose Kunyomi: はな Onyomi: ビ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 鼻 (はな)	nose 鼻 画数14 733 Details Story Dictionary 鼻 nose My Story You cant stop snorting all the *H* (Heroin) from *your* own {自} *fields*, can you Koohii #1 An Egyptian embalmer reaching both hands into the dead pharaoh´s nose and yanking out handfuls of brain. Koohii #2 I sneezed so hard that through my NOSE I blew out my BRAINS into BOTH HANDS. Primitives nose, drop, eye, rice field, brains, two hands 耳鼻科(じびか): otolaryngology 鼻(はな): nose Kunyomi: はな Onyomi: ビ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 鼻 (はな)
punish Details Story Dictionary 刑 punish My Story The death penalty is when they *open* up your whole torso with a *realistic sword* to punish you. Koohii #1 This kanji is for severe punishment. A man has his shackled hands placed on a wood block and they´re chopped off with a saber. No more stealing bread in the Middle East... Koohii #2 In Arab countries they punish theives by cutting off BOTH HANDS with a SABRE. Primitives punish, two hands, sword, sabre, saber 刑(けい): penalty, sentence, punishment 刑罰(けいばつ): judgement, penalty, punishment 死刑(しけい): death penalty, capital punishment 刑事(けいじ): criminal case, (police) detective Kunyomi: Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	punish 刑 画数6 734 Details Story Dictionary 刑 punish My Story The death penalty is when they *open* up your whole torso with a *realistic sword* to punish you. Koohii #1 This kanji is for severe punishment. A man has his shackled hands placed on a wood block and they´re chopped off with a saber. No more stealing bread in the Middle East... Koohii #2 In Arab countries they punish theives by cutting off BOTH HANDS with a SABRE. Primitives punish, two hands, sword, sabre, saber 刑(けい): penalty, sentence, punishment 刑罰(けいばつ): judgement, penalty, punishment 死刑(しけい): death penalty, capital punishment 刑事(けいじ): criminal case, (police) detective Kunyomi: Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
mould Details Story Dictionary 型 mould Heisig's Punish . . . soil. In cases like this, you might find it easier to break the character up into its more basic elements, like this: two hands . . . saber . . . soil. Koohii #1 A famous ninja once pressed his two hands and saber into the soil of his temple, before going onto a mission from which he never came back. Think of some sort of signature that he left behind him. The mould of his two hands and saber has since become a popular attraction in the area. Koohii #2 As a PUNISHMENT they made me lay face down in the DIRT leaving a nice imprinted MOULD of my whole BODY. Primitives mould, punish, two hands, sword, sabre, saber, soil, dirt, ground 模型(もけい): model, dummy, maquette 型(かた): mold, model, style, shape, data type 典型(てんけい): type, pattern, archetypal Kunyomi: かた、-がた Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 型 (かた)	mould 型 画数9 735 Details Story Dictionary 型 mould Heisig's Punish . . . soil. In cases like this, you might find it easier to break the character up into its more basic elements, like this: two hands . . . saber . . . soil. Koohii #1 A famous ninja once pressed his two hands and saber into the soil of his temple, before going onto a mission from which he never came back. Think of some sort of signature that he left behind him. The mould of his two hands and saber has since become a popular attraction in the area. Koohii #2 As a PUNISHMENT they made me lay face down in the DIRT leaving a nice imprinted MOULD of my whole BODY. Primitives mould, punish, two hands, sword, sabre, saber, soil, dirt, ground 模型(もけい): model, dummy, maquette 型(かた): mold, model, style, shape, data type 典型(てんけい): type, pattern, archetypal Kunyomi: かた、-がた Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 型 (かた)
"genius Details Story Dictionary 才 genius Heisig's Whatever one is particularly adept at - one's special ""genius"" - one can do very easily, ""with one finger"" as the phrase goes. This kanji is a pictograph of that one finger. Note how its distinctive form is created by writing the final stroke of the element for fingers backwards. * The primitive meaning, genie, derives from the roots of the word genius. Use the genie out in the open when the primitive appears to the right of or below its relative primitive; in that case it also keeps its same form. At the left, the form is altered, and the meaning becomes a genie in the bottle. Koohii #1 Spinal tap: ""Every other band´s amps go to ten. But you see my extra stroke of genius - these go to eleven."". Koohii #2 A TEN year old had a STROKE of GENIUS and wrote this joke: 何歳ですか？　　　。。。天才です！. Primitives genius, genius, genie 天才(てんさい): genius, prodigy, natural gift 才能(さいのう): talent, ability Kunyomi: Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"genius 才 画数3 736 Details Story Dictionary 才 genius Heisig's Whatever one is particularly adept at - one's special ""genius"" - one can do very easily, ""with one finger"" as the phrase goes. This kanji is a pictograph of that one finger. Note how its distinctive form is created by writing the final stroke of the element for fingers backwards. * The primitive meaning, genie, derives from the roots of the word genius. Use the genie out in the open when the primitive appears to the right of or below its relative primitive; in that case it also keeps its same form. At the left, the form is altered, and the meaning becomes a genie in the bottle. Koohii #1 Spinal tap: ""Every other band´s amps go to ten. But you see my extra stroke of genius - these go to eleven."". Koohii #2 A TEN year old had a STROKE of GENIUS and wrote this joke: 何歳ですか？　　　。。。天才です！. Primitives genius, genius, genie 天才(てんさい): genius, prodigy, natural gift 才能(さいのう): talent, ability Kunyomi: Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
property Details Story Dictionary 財 property Heisig's Clam . . . genie. Koohii #1 If you´re a money genius, you can afford a lot of property. Koohii #2 The keyword refers to property in the sense of money or funds rather than of buildings or real estate. Keep this one distinct from frame 193 (“wealth”) and frame 473 (“assets”). Here we have a genie, gulping down oysters. Someone tries to grab an oyster and the genie puts his big arms around his oysters and states his “right of ownership” : “They´re mines, my property!”. Primitives property, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, genie 財(ざい): fortune, riches 財源(ざいげん): source of funds, resources, finances 財政(ざいせい): economy, financial affairs 文化財(ぶんかざい): cultural assets, cultural property 財産(ざいさん): property, fortune, assets 財布(さいふ): purse, wallet Kunyomi: たから Onyomi: ザイ、サイ、ゾク Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 財産 (ざいさん), 私財 (しざい), 文化財 (ぶんかざい)	property 財 画数10 737 Details Story Dictionary 財 property Heisig's Clam . . . genie. Koohii #1 If you´re a money genius, you can afford a lot of property. Koohii #2 The keyword refers to property in the sense of money or funds rather than of buildings or real estate. Keep this one distinct from frame 193 (“wealth”) and frame 473 (“assets”). Here we have a genie, gulping down oysters. Someone tries to grab an oyster and the genie puts his big arms around his oysters and states his “right of ownership” : “They´re mines, my property!”. Primitives property, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, genie 財(ざい): fortune, riches 財源(ざいげん): source of funds, resources, finances 財政(ざいせい): economy, financial affairs 文化財(ぶんかざい): cultural assets, cultural property 財産(ざいさん): property, fortune, assets 財布(さいふ): purse, wallet Kunyomi: たから Onyomi: ザイ、サイ、ゾク Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 財産 (ざいさん), 私財 (しざい), 文化財 (ぶんかざい)
lumber Details Story Dictionary 材 lumber My Story the first guy to make lumber from a *tree* must have been a *genius* Koohii #1 A TREE GENIUS is a LUMBER jack. Duh. Koohii #2 Just when the were about to turn the last tree into lumber, the Lorax (the tree-genie) jumps out and puts a stop to the whole affair. Primitives lumber, tree, wood, genie 教材(きょうざい): teaching materials 取材(しゅざい): choice of subject, collecting data 人材(じんざい): man of talent 素材(そざい): raw materials, subject matter 材木(ざいもく): lumber, timber 材料(ざいりょう): ingredients, material 木材(もくざい): lumber, timber, wood Kunyomi: Onyomi: ザイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	lumber 材 画数7 738 Details Story Dictionary 材 lumber My Story the first guy to make lumber from a *tree* must have been a *genius* Koohii #1 A TREE GENIUS is a LUMBER jack. Duh. Koohii #2 Just when the were about to turn the last tree into lumber, the Lorax (the tree-genie) jumps out and puts a stop to the whole affair. Primitives lumber, tree, wood, genie 教材(きょうざい): teaching materials 取材(しゅざい): choice of subject, collecting data 人材(じんざい): man of talent 素材(そざい): raw materials, subject matter 材木(ざいもく): lumber, timber 材料(ざいりょう): ingredients, material 木材(もくざい): lumber, timber, wood Kunyomi: Onyomi: ザイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
"suppose Details Story Dictionary 存 suppose Heisig's Genie in the bottle . . . a child. Hint: focus on the key word's connotation of ""make believe"". Koohii #1 How do you suppose they manage to cram a genie inside a bottle? Well, I suppose they put him in there while he´s still a little child... Koohii #2 Villagers on a little remote island one day find a bottle washed out by the sea onto the beach. After wiping the bottle and taking a closer look, they are amazed to see a (very small) child in it. The villagers suppose that the child is a genie in a bottle. Primitives suppose, genie, child 依存(いそん): dependence, dependent, reliance 共存(きょうそん): coexistence 存続(そんぞく): duration, continuance 生存(せいぞん): existence, being, survival 存在(そんざい): existence, being 存じる(ぞんじる): (humble) to know 存ずる(ぞんずる): (humble) to think, feel, consider, know, etc. 保存(ほぞん): preservation, conservation, storage, maintenance ご存じ(ごぞんじ): know Kunyomi: Onyomi: ソン、ゾン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 存在 (そんざい), 存続 (そんぞく), 既存 (きぞん)"	"suppose 存 画数6 739 Details Story Dictionary 存 suppose Heisig's Genie in the bottle . . . a child. Hint: focus on the key word's connotation of ""make believe"". Koohii #1 How do you suppose they manage to cram a genie inside a bottle? Well, I suppose they put him in there while he´s still a little child... Koohii #2 Villagers on a little remote island one day find a bottle washed out by the sea onto the beach. After wiping the bottle and taking a closer look, they are amazed to see a (very small) child in it. The villagers suppose that the child is a genie in a bottle. Primitives suppose, genie, child 依存(いそん): dependence, dependent, reliance 共存(きょうそん): coexistence 存続(そんぞく): duration, continuance 生存(せいぞん): existence, being, survival 存在(そんざい): existence, being 存じる(ぞんじる): (humble) to know 存ずる(ぞんずる): (humble) to think, feel, consider, know, etc. 保存(ほぞん): preservation, conservation, storage, maintenance ご存じ(ごぞんじ): know Kunyomi: Onyomi: ソン、ゾン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 存在 (そんざい), 存続 (そんぞく), 既存 (きぞん)"
exist Details Story Dictionary 在 exist Heisig's Genie in the bottle . . . soil. Koohii #1 Genie in the bottle does exist but you need to dig deep into the soil to find one. Koohii #2 You wipe the soil from the bottle, only to have a genie float out above you, saying: ´I am the genie in a bottle, what is your wish?´ So now you know that they do exist. Primitives exist, genie, soil, dirt, ground 健在(けんざい): in good health, well 在庫(ざいこ): stockpile, stock 自在(じざい): freely, at will 所在(しょざい): whereabouts 不在(ふざい): absence 在る(ある): to live, to be 現在(げんざい): present, up to now, nowadays, modern times, current 在学(ざいがく): (enrolled) in school 存在(そんざい): existence, being 滞在(たいざい): stay, sojourn Kunyomi: あ.る Onyomi: ザイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 在る (あ.る)	exist 在 画数6 740 Details Story Dictionary 在 exist Heisig's Genie in the bottle . . . soil. Koohii #1 Genie in the bottle does exist but you need to dig deep into the soil to find one. Koohii #2 You wipe the soil from the bottle, only to have a genie float out above you, saying: ´I am the genie in a bottle, what is your wish?´ So now you know that they do exist. Primitives exist, genie, soil, dirt, ground 健在(けんざい): in good health, well 在庫(ざいこ): stockpile, stock 自在(じざい): freely, at will 所在(しょざい): whereabouts 不在(ふざい): absence 在る(ある): to live, to be 現在(げんざい): present, up to now, nowadays, modern times, current 在学(ざいがく): (enrolled) in school 存在(そんざい): existence, being 滞在(たいざい): stay, sojourn Kunyomi: あ.る Onyomi: ザイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 在る (あ.る)
"from Details Story Dictionary 乃 from Heisig's This pictograph of a clenched fist is another of the ""hand primitives."" Take note of its rather peculiar drawing. Try to think of drawing a fist (the primitive meaning) ""from"" this character to give yourself a connotation for the otherwise abstract key word. * The primitive meaning is taken from the pictograph: a fist. Koohii #1 FROM a pictograph of a thumbs up. That´s how it also gets the primitive meaning of fist. Koohii #2 Think Charlton Heston: ""From my cold, dead fists"". Speech given to the National Boxing Association, in response to stricter control on boxing gloves. Primitives from, fist, from 乃至(ないし): from...to, between...and, or Kunyomi: の、すなわ.ち、なんじ Onyomi: ナイ、ダイ、ノ、アイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"from 乃 画数2 741 Details Story Dictionary 乃 from Heisig's This pictograph of a clenched fist is another of the ""hand primitives."" Take note of its rather peculiar drawing. Try to think of drawing a fist (the primitive meaning) ""from"" this character to give yourself a connotation for the otherwise abstract key word. * The primitive meaning is taken from the pictograph: a fist. Koohii #1 FROM a pictograph of a thumbs up. That´s how it also gets the primitive meaning of fist. Koohii #2 Think Charlton Heston: ""From my cold, dead fists"". Speech given to the National Boxing Association, in response to stricter control on boxing gloves. Primitives from, fist, from 乃至(ないし): from...to, between...and, or Kunyomi: の、すなわ.ち、なんじ Onyomi: ナイ、ダイ、ノ、アイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"portable Details Story Dictionary 携 portable Heisig's Fingers . . . turkey . . . fist. Koohii #1 This character is the ""kei"" in ""keitai"" (cell phone), a word you will no doubt hear often in Japan, since everyone has one. Imagine you´ve just arrived in Japan, but don´t have a cell phone yet, so instead you´re carrying around a portable turkey you can hold in your fist. To dial a number, just poke it with your fingers. Koohii #2 Because they have no fingers, turkeys must use their fists when dialing on a portable phone. Primitives portable, finger, fingers, turkey, fist, from 携帯(けいたい): carrying something 携わる(たずさわる): to participate, to take part 提携(ていけい): cooperation, tie-up, joint business, link-up Kunyomi: たずさ.える、たずさ.わる Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 携える (たずさ.える), 携わる (たずさ.わる)"	"portable 携 画数13 742 Details Story Dictionary 携 portable Heisig's Fingers . . . turkey . . . fist. Koohii #1 This character is the ""kei"" in ""keitai"" (cell phone), a word you will no doubt hear often in Japan, since everyone has one. Imagine you´ve just arrived in Japan, but don´t have a cell phone yet, so instead you´re carrying around a portable turkey you can hold in your fist. To dial a number, just poke it with your fingers. Koohii #2 Because they have no fingers, turkeys must use their fists when dialing on a portable phone. Primitives portable, finger, fingers, turkey, fist, from 携帯(けいたい): carrying something 携わる(たずさわる): to participate, to take part 提携(ていけい): cooperation, tie-up, joint business, link-up Kunyomi: たずさ.える、たずさ.わる Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 携える (たずさ.える), 携わる (たずさ.わる)"
reach out Details Story Dictionary 及 reach out Heisig's The addition of a final stroke transforms this character from the primitive for a clenched fist into the kanji for reaching out, much as a stroke of kindness can often turn anger into acceptance. * As a primitive, this shall stand for outstretched hands. Only take care not to confuse it with that for beg (Frame 501) Koohii #1 I like to think of this as a fist with with brass knuckles because of the extra line. An old school thug reaches out to help you up but then with his other hand ( with the brass knuckles) punches you. Koohii #2 Reach out and fist someone (Do you see the person primitive?). Primitives reach out, fist, from, drop 及び(および): and, as well as 及ぶ(およぶ): to reach, to come up to, to amount to, to befall, to happen to, to extend, to match, to equal 追及(ついきゅう): gaining on, carrying out, solving (crime) 及ぼす(およぼす): exert, cause, exercise 普及(ふきゅう): diffusion, spread Kunyomi: およ.ぶ、およ.び、および、およ.ぼす Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 及び (およ.び), 及ぶ (およ.ぶ), 及ぼす (およ.ぼす)	reach out 及 画数3 743 Details Story Dictionary 及 reach out Heisig's The addition of a final stroke transforms this character from the primitive for a clenched fist into the kanji for reaching out, much as a stroke of kindness can often turn anger into acceptance. * As a primitive, this shall stand for outstretched hands. Only take care not to confuse it with that for beg (Frame 501) Koohii #1 I like to think of this as a fist with with brass knuckles because of the extra line. An old school thug reaches out to help you up but then with his other hand ( with the brass knuckles) punches you. Koohii #2 Reach out and fist someone (Do you see the person primitive?). Primitives reach out, fist, from, drop 及び(および): and, as well as 及ぶ(およぶ): to reach, to come up to, to amount to, to befall, to happen to, to extend, to match, to equal 追及(ついきゅう): gaining on, carrying out, solving (crime) 及ぼす(およぼす): exert, cause, exercise 普及(ふきゅう): diffusion, spread Kunyomi: およ.ぶ、およ.び、および、およ.ぼす Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 及び (およ.び), 及ぶ (およ.ぶ), 及ぼす (およ.ぼす)
suck Details Story Dictionary 吸 suck Heisig's Mouth . . . outstretched hands. Hint: use the image of a nursing baby. Koohii #1 Imagine a baby reaching out and holding mom´s breast as if it were bottle, and sucking on it to get some milk. Koohii #2 An open mouth and reaching hands : a baby wants to suck at his mother´s breast. Primitives suck, mouth, reach out 吸収(きゅうしゅう): absorption, suction, attraction 呼吸(こきゅう): breath, respiration, knack, trick, secret (of doing something) 吸う(すう): to smoke, breathe in, sip, suck Kunyomi: す.う Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 吸う (す.う)	suck 吸 画数6 744 Details Story Dictionary 吸 suck Heisig's Mouth . . . outstretched hands. Hint: use the image of a nursing baby. Koohii #1 Imagine a baby reaching out and holding mom´s breast as if it were bottle, and sucking on it to get some milk. Koohii #2 An open mouth and reaching hands : a baby wants to suck at his mother´s breast. Primitives suck, mouth, reach out 吸収(きゅうしゅう): absorption, suction, attraction 呼吸(こきゅう): breath, respiration, knack, trick, secret (of doing something) 吸う(すう): to smoke, breathe in, sip, suck Kunyomi: す.う Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 吸う (す.う)
handle Details Story Dictionary 扱 handle Heisig's Finger . . . outstretched hands. Koohii #1 See suck (#689): if it´s too big to handle, just use your fingers instead... Koohii #2 One of the first thing a baby can do with his hand is to reach out and grab your finger as if it was a little handle. Primitives handle, finger, fingers, reach out 扱い(あつかい): treatment, service 取り扱い(とりあつかい): treatment, service, handling, management 取り扱う(とりあつかう): to treat, to handle, to deal in 扱う(あつかう): to handle, deal with Kunyomi: あつか.い、あつか.う、あつか.る、こ.く Onyomi: ソウ、キュウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 扱う (あつか.う)	handle 扱 画数6 745 Details Story Dictionary 扱 handle Heisig's Finger . . . outstretched hands. Koohii #1 See suck (#689): if it´s too big to handle, just use your fingers instead... Koohii #2 One of the first thing a baby can do with his hand is to reach out and grab your finger as if it was a little handle. Primitives handle, finger, fingers, reach out 扱い(あつかい): treatment, service 取り扱い(とりあつかい): treatment, service, handling, management 取り扱う(とりあつかう): to treat, to handle, to deal in 扱う(あつかう): to handle, deal with Kunyomi: あつか.い、あつか.う、あつか.る、こ.く Onyomi: ソウ、キュウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 扱う (あつか.う)
"length Details Story Dictionary 丈 length My Story ナ + ノ = length Koohii #1 Both a meter and a yard are about one arm-length. Koohii #2 This kanji reminds me of the kanji for big (I think it looks the same kinda of except for the last stroke). Maybe this works for guys, but when you were growing up you would compare ""length"" with your friends trying to show how BIG you were. You wouldn´t show ""it"" but you would spread your arms out as wide as possible to exaggerate your length. Maybe even so wide that you trip (I the 3rd stroke getting pushed over)! I just find it easier to relate this to the previous kanji. Primitives length, stick, tucked under the arm 頑丈(がんじょう): solid, firm, stout, burly, strong, sturdy 丈夫(じょうふ): hero, gentleman, warrior, manly person, good health, robustness, strong, solid, durable 丈(たけ): height, stature, length, measure, all (one has) 丈(だけ): only, just, as 成る丈(なるたけ): as much as possible, if possible 丈夫(じょうぶ): good health, robustness, strong, solid, durable, hero, gentleman, warrior, manly person 大丈夫(だいじょうぶ): safe, all right, O.K. Kunyomi: たけ、だけ Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 丈 (たけ)"	"length 丈 画数3 746 Details Story Dictionary 丈 length My Story ナ + ノ = length Koohii #1 Both a meter and a yard are about one arm-length. Koohii #2 This kanji reminds me of the kanji for big (I think it looks the same kinda of except for the last stroke). Maybe this works for guys, but when you were growing up you would compare ""length"" with your friends trying to show how BIG you were. You wouldn´t show ""it"" but you would spread your arms out as wide as possible to exaggerate your length. Maybe even so wide that you trip (I the 3rd stroke getting pushed over)! I just find it easier to relate this to the previous kanji. Primitives length, stick, tucked under the arm 頑丈(がんじょう): solid, firm, stout, burly, strong, sturdy 丈夫(じょうふ): hero, gentleman, warrior, manly person, good health, robustness, strong, solid, durable 丈(たけ): height, stature, length, measure, all (one has) 丈(だけ): only, just, as 成る丈(なるたけ): as much as possible, if possible 丈夫(じょうぶ): good health, robustness, strong, solid, durable, hero, gentleman, warrior, manly person 大丈夫(だいじょうぶ): safe, all right, O.K. Kunyomi: たけ、だけ Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 丈 (たけ)"
"history Details Story Dictionary 史 history Heisig's A mouth . . . tucked under the arm. Koohii #1 I sleep in history class with my mouth tucked under my arm. Koohii #2 History students usually going to school with a history book tucked under their arm. But now instead of a book, you have a small talking mouth that tell you about history. ""When I was young, I used to walk 5 miles everyday....."". Primitives history, mouth, tucked under the arm 女史(じょし): Ms. 歴史(れきし): history Kunyomi: Onyomi: シ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"history 史 画数5 747 Details Story Dictionary 史 history Heisig's A mouth . . . tucked under the arm. Koohii #1 I sleep in history class with my mouth tucked under my arm. Koohii #2 History students usually going to school with a history book tucked under their arm. But now instead of a book, you have a small talking mouth that tell you about history. ""When I was young, I used to walk 5 miles everyday....."". Primitives history, mouth, tucked under the arm 女史(じょし): Ms. 歴史(れきし): history Kunyomi: Onyomi: シ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
officer Details Story Dictionary 吏 officer Heisig's One . . . mouth . . . tucked under the arm. Koohii #1 One officer can change the course of history. Koohii #2 One officer, namely Napoleon, changed the course of history. (Thanks, ayoung24). Napoleon is also my primitive meaning. Primitives officer, history, length, stick, one, mouth, tucked under the arm 下吏(かり): lower official 捕吏(ほり): constable Kunyomi: Onyomi: リ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	officer 吏 画数6 748 Details Story Dictionary 吏 officer Heisig's One . . . mouth . . . tucked under the arm. Koohii #1 One officer can change the course of history. Koohii #2 One officer, namely Napoleon, changed the course of history. (Thanks, ayoung24). Napoleon is also my primitive meaning. Primitives officer, history, length, stick, one, mouth, tucked under the arm 下吏(かり): lower official 捕吏(ほり): constable Kunyomi: Onyomi: リ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
grow late Details Story Dictionary 更 grow late Heisig's The implication behind the meaning of grow late is that things are changing in the same way that the day turns into night. The elements: ceiling . . . sun . . . tucked under the arm. Koohii #1 At nightbreak (#30) the sun rises above the floor, so it is logical that when it is growing late, the sun would rise to the ceiling. Time to pack up your things and take your belongings under your arm. Koohii #2 It´s starting to GROW LATE, so God will take the SUN, and TUCK IT UNDER HIS ARM, and walk away. In the morning, he´ll bring it back, so don´t worry. Primitives grow late, Ameratasu, one, ceiling, sun, tucked under the arm 今更(いまさら): now, at this late hour 尚更(なおさら): all the more, still less 夜更かし(よふかし): staying up late, keeping late hours, sitting up late at night, nighthawk 夜更け(よふけ): late at night 更に(さらに): furthermore, again, after all, more and more, moreover 更ける(ふける): get late, advance, wear on, 変更(へんこう): change, modification, alteration Kunyomi: さら、さら.に、ふ.ける、ふ.かす Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 更 (さら), 更かす (ふ.かす), 更ける (ふ.ける)	grow late 更 画数7 749 Details Story Dictionary 更 grow late Heisig's The implication behind the meaning of grow late is that things are changing in the same way that the day turns into night. The elements: ceiling . . . sun . . . tucked under the arm. Koohii #1 At nightbreak (#30) the sun rises above the floor, so it is logical that when it is growing late, the sun would rise to the ceiling. Time to pack up your things and take your belongings under your arm. Koohii #2 It´s starting to GROW LATE, so God will take the SUN, and TUCK IT UNDER HIS ARM, and walk away. In the morning, he´ll bring it back, so don´t worry. Primitives grow late, Ameratasu, one, ceiling, sun, tucked under the arm 今更(いまさら): now, at this late hour 尚更(なおさら): all the more, still less 夜更かし(よふかし): staying up late, keeping late hours, sitting up late at night, nighthawk 夜更け(よふけ): late at night 更に(さらに): furthermore, again, after all, more and more, moreover 更ける(ふける): get late, advance, wear on, 変更(へんこう): change, modification, alteration Kunyomi: さら、さら.に、ふ.ける、ふ.かす Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 更 (さら), 更かす (ふ.かす), 更ける (ふ.ける)
stiff Details Story Dictionary 硬 stiff Heisig's Rocks . . . grow late. Koohii #1 A stiff drink on the ROCKs after it GROWS LATE is a way to unwind after a long day... Koohii #2 Stones are so stiff that even if you spent all day straining trying to change their shape, it would grow late far before you ever accomplished your task. Primitives stiff, stone, rock, grow late, Ameratasu, one, ceiling, sun, tucked under the arm 強硬(きょうこう): firm, vigorous, unbending, unyielding, strong, stubborn 硬い(かたい): solid, hard (especially metal, stone), unpolished writing 硬貨(こうか): coin Kunyomi: かた.い Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 硬い (かた.い)	stiff 硬 画数12 750 Details Story Dictionary 硬 stiff Heisig's Rocks . . . grow late. Koohii #1 A stiff drink on the ROCKs after it GROWS LATE is a way to unwind after a long day... Koohii #2 Stones are so stiff that even if you spent all day straining trying to change their shape, it would grow late far before you ever accomplished your task. Primitives stiff, stone, rock, grow late, Ameratasu, one, ceiling, sun, tucked under the arm 強硬(きょうこう): firm, vigorous, unbending, unyielding, strong, stubborn 硬い(かたい): solid, hard (especially metal, stone), unpolished writing 硬貨(こうか): coin Kunyomi: かた.い Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 硬い (かた.い)
spiny Details Story Dictionary 梗 spiny Heisig's This character refers originally to a deciduous, rough tree that grows on mountain plains. From this it gets the secondary sense of rugged or spiny. Its primitive elements: tree . . . grow late. Koohii #1 I learned this one from the movie Evil Dead, but when it grows late, trees change shape and become spiny creatures! Lesson: don´t go out at night. Koohii #2 With the safety of darkness as it grows late, spiny little insects start crawling out of the trees. Primitives spiny, tree, wood, grow late, Ameratasu, one, ceiling, sun, tucked under the arm Kunyomi: ふさぐ、やまにれ、おおむね Onyomi: コウ、キョウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	spiny 梗 画数11 751 Details Story Dictionary 梗 spiny Heisig's This character refers originally to a deciduous, rough tree that grows on mountain plains. From this it gets the secondary sense of rugged or spiny. Its primitive elements: tree . . . grow late. Koohii #1 I learned this one from the movie Evil Dead, but when it grows late, trees change shape and become spiny creatures! Lesson: don´t go out at night. Koohii #2 With the safety of darkness as it grows late, spiny little insects start crawling out of the trees. Primitives spiny, tree, wood, grow late, Ameratasu, one, ceiling, sun, tucked under the arm Kunyomi: ふさぐ、やまにれ、おおむね Onyomi: コウ、キョウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
"or again Details Story Dictionary 又 or again Heisig's Like the several abbreviations in Roman script to indicate ""and"" (+, &, etc.), this short two-stroke kanji is used for the similar meaning of or again. * As a primitive, it will mean crotch, as in the crotch of the arm. Or whatever. Koohii #1 After her boyfriend´s crotch has been satisfied, a woman might suggest they cuddle. The boyfriend, on the other hand, might say, ""Or again, we could fool around . . . "". Koohii #2 This keyword should really be ""again"" not ""or again"" Here is some context: think of the phrase ""Jya mata"" ""じゃ又"" which is a farewell similar to ""then again"". Also ""Mata ne"" ""又ね"" and mata ashita (again tomorrow) ""又明日""。 Note this kanji is rarely used, most of the time JP people spell it out ""mata"" except for in the last example: 又明日. Primitives or again, crotch 又(また): again, and 又は(または): or, the other Kunyomi: また、また-、また.の- Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 又 (また)"	"or again 又 画数2 752 Details Story Dictionary 又 or again Heisig's Like the several abbreviations in Roman script to indicate ""and"" (+, &, etc.), this short two-stroke kanji is used for the similar meaning of or again. * As a primitive, it will mean crotch, as in the crotch of the arm. Or whatever. Koohii #1 After her boyfriend´s crotch has been satisfied, a woman might suggest they cuddle. The boyfriend, on the other hand, might say, ""Or again, we could fool around . . . "". Koohii #2 This keyword should really be ""again"" not ""or again"" Here is some context: think of the phrase ""Jya mata"" ""じゃ又"" which is a farewell similar to ""then again"". Also ""Mata ne"" ""又ね"" and mata ashita (again tomorrow) ""又明日""。 Note this kanji is rarely used, most of the time JP people spell it out ""mata"" except for in the last example: 又明日. Primitives or again, crotch 又(また): again, and 又は(または): or, the other Kunyomi: また、また-、また.の- Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 又 (また)"
pair Details Story Dictionary 双 pair Heisig's The crotch reduplicated gives us a pair. Koohii #1 Crotch to crotch is how many pairs spend their private time together. . . Koohii #2 The animals boarding Noah´s Ark all came in pairs – but Noah had to carefully check the two crotches in each pair to ensure that the animals were of different sexes and thus able to further their species after the flood. Primitives pair, crotch, crotch2 双子(ふたご): twins, a twin Kunyomi: ふた、たぐい、ならぶ、ふたつ Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 双 (ふた)	pair 双 画数4 753 Details Story Dictionary 双 pair Heisig's The crotch reduplicated gives us a pair. Koohii #1 Crotch to crotch is how many pairs spend their private time together. . . Koohii #2 The animals boarding Noah´s Ark all came in pairs – but Noah had to carefully check the two crotches in each pair to ensure that the animals were of different sexes and thus able to further their species after the flood. Primitives pair, crotch, crotch2 双子(ふたご): twins, a twin Kunyomi: ふた、たぐい、ならぶ、ふたつ Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 双 (ふた)
"mulberry Details Story Dictionary 桑 mulberry Heisig's Crotches, crotches everywhere . . . tree. Hint: think of a group of children playing an original version of ""Here We Go 'Round the Mulberry Bush."" Koohii #1 Children going around the mulberry tree singing ""This is the way we wash our crotch, wash our crotch, wash our crotch..."". Koohii #2 Imagine kids all over the top of a mulberry tree, sitting astride limbs so that their weight is on their crotches. (Mulberry trees have big sprawling limbs that run horizontally or at shallow angles making them easy to climb and sit in. I have an old mulberry in my yard, and my kids are in it constantly). Primitives mulberry, crotch, tree, wood, crotch3 Kunyomi: くわ Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 桑 (くわ)"	"mulberry 桑 画数10 754 Details Story Dictionary 桑 mulberry Heisig's Crotches, crotches everywhere . . . tree. Hint: think of a group of children playing an original version of ""Here We Go 'Round the Mulberry Bush."" Koohii #1 Children going around the mulberry tree singing ""This is the way we wash our crotch, wash our crotch, wash our crotch..."". Koohii #2 Imagine kids all over the top of a mulberry tree, sitting astride limbs so that their weight is on their crotches. (Mulberry trees have big sprawling limbs that run horizontally or at shallow angles making them easy to climb and sit in. I have an old mulberry in my yard, and my kids are in it constantly). Primitives mulberry, crotch, tree, wood, crotch3 Kunyomi: くわ Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 桑 (くわ)"
vessels Details Story Dictionary 隻 vessels Heisig's The key word indicates the Japanese generic term for counting ships. Its elements: turkey . . . crotch. Koohii #1 On Vessels that travel long distances, sailors often get quite lonely. They keep TURKEYS on the VESSELS, but not for use as food. The lonely sailors take turns enjoying the turkey´s CROTCH. Koohii #2 Donald Duck is a big bird that does not wear pants. It´s good to use him as a mnemonic because he is a sailor, and this kanji is used to count vessels. Primitives vessels, turkey, crotch Kunyomi: Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	vessels 隻 画数10 755 Details Story Dictionary 隻 vessels Heisig's The key word indicates the Japanese generic term for counting ships. Its elements: turkey . . . crotch. Koohii #1 On Vessels that travel long distances, sailors often get quite lonely. They keep TURKEYS on the VESSELS, but not for use as food. The lonely sailors take turns enjoying the turkey´s CROTCH. Koohii #2 Donald Duck is a big bird that does not wear pants. It´s good to use him as a mnemonic because he is a sailor, and this kanji is used to count vessels. Primitives vessels, turkey, crotch Kunyomi: Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
safeguard Details Story Dictionary 護 safeguard Heisig's Words . . . flowers . . . vessels. Koohii #1 Think of the flower-vessels as a the Greenpeace vessel “Arctic Sunrise”, only instead of a rainbow there is a big flower painted on the hull (this will come back in seize (#701) and harvest (#908)). Think of “flower-power” and of the “peace” in “Greenpeace” and it will make some sense hopefully. -- In this kanji, we see an inauguration speech being given before the Greenpeace vessel is set afloat and sent to safeguard our planet. Koohii #2 (With sarcasm) A Bush speech telling how all the US vessels are always welcomed, covered with flowers and words of gratitude for safeguarding democracy from the evil doers. Primitives safeguard, say, words, keitai, mouth, radio caroline, flowers, vessels, turkey, crotch 介護(かいご): nursing 看護(かんご): nursing, (army) nurse 護衛(ごえい): guard, convoy, escort 弁護(べんご): defense, pleading, advocacy 保護(ほご): care, protection, shelter, guardianship, favor, patronage 養護(ようご): protection, nursing, protective care 看護婦(かんごふ): nurse Kunyomi: まも.る Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	safeguard 護 画数20 756 Details Story Dictionary 護 safeguard Heisig's Words . . . flowers . . . vessels. Koohii #1 Think of the flower-vessels as a the Greenpeace vessel “Arctic Sunrise”, only instead of a rainbow there is a big flower painted on the hull (this will come back in seize (#701) and harvest (#908)). Think of “flower-power” and of the “peace” in “Greenpeace” and it will make some sense hopefully. -- In this kanji, we see an inauguration speech being given before the Greenpeace vessel is set afloat and sent to safeguard our planet. Koohii #2 (With sarcasm) A Bush speech telling how all the US vessels are always welcomed, covered with flowers and words of gratitude for safeguarding democracy from the evil doers. Primitives safeguard, say, words, keitai, mouth, radio caroline, flowers, vessels, turkey, crotch 介護(かいご): nursing 看護(かんご): nursing, (army) nurse 護衛(ごえい): guard, convoy, escort 弁護(べんご): defense, pleading, advocacy 保護(ほご): care, protection, shelter, guardianship, favor, patronage 養護(ようご): protection, nursing, protective care 看護婦(かんごふ): nurse Kunyomi: まも.る Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
seize Details Story Dictionary 獲 seize Heisig's A pack of wild dogs . . . flowers . . . vessels. Do not confuse this with the character for arrest (Frame 706). Koohii #1 A pack of genetically-modified wild dogs is seized by a group of Greenpeace activists and taken onboard the Greenpeace vessel (the flower vessel, see safeguard (#700)). Koohii #2 Customs just seized a crate of poppies (flowers) detected by trained wild dogs who inspected the vessel. Primitives seize, pack of wild dogs, radio caroline, flowers, vessels, turkey, crotch 獲物(えもの): game, spoils, trophy 獲得(かくとく): acquisition, possession 捕獲(ほかく): capture, seizure Kunyomi: え.る Onyomi: カク Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 獲る (え.る)	seize 獲 画数16 757 Details Story Dictionary 獲 seize Heisig's A pack of wild dogs . . . flowers . . . vessels. Do not confuse this with the character for arrest (Frame 706). Koohii #1 A pack of genetically-modified wild dogs is seized by a group of Greenpeace activists and taken onboard the Greenpeace vessel (the flower vessel, see safeguard (#700)). Koohii #2 Customs just seized a crate of poppies (flowers) detected by trained wild dogs who inspected the vessel. Primitives seize, pack of wild dogs, radio caroline, flowers, vessels, turkey, crotch 獲物(えもの): game, spoils, trophy 獲得(かくとく): acquisition, possession 捕獲(ほかく): capture, seizure Kunyomi: え.る Onyomi: カク Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 獲る (え.る)
"guy Details Story Dictionary 奴 guy Heisig's Woman . . . crotch. Koohii #1 That GUY stole my WOMAN so I kicked him in the CROTCH. (This story helps keep the word ""GUY"" as someone you hold in contempt). Koohii #2 Guys only care about 2 things: women and their crotch (preferably at the same time). Primitives guy, woman, crotch 奴(やっこ): servant, fellow Kunyomi: やつ、やっこ Onyomi: ド Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"guy 奴 画数5 758 Details Story Dictionary 奴 guy Heisig's Woman . . . crotch. Koohii #1 That GUY stole my WOMAN so I kicked him in the CROTCH. (This story helps keep the word ""GUY"" as someone you hold in contempt). Koohii #2 Guys only care about 2 things: women and their crotch (preferably at the same time). Primitives guy, woman, crotch 奴(やっこ): servant, fellow Kunyomi: やつ、やっこ Onyomi: ド Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
angry Details Story Dictionary 怒 angry Heisig's Guy . . . heart. Koohii #1 This woman is angry because of the guys in the previous frame who pay more attention to her crotch than her heart. I prefer to decompose the kanji in three elements here because it is easier to read like a mnemonic. Koohii #2 WOMEN get very ANGRY over the thought that GUYS are more interested in her CROTCH than her HEART. Primitives angry, guy, woman, crotch, heart 怒り(いかり): anger, hatred 怒る(いかる): to get angry, to be angry 怒鳴る(どなる): to shout, to yell 怒る(おこる): get angry Kunyomi: いか.る、おこ.る Onyomi: ド、ヌ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 怒る (いか.る), 怒る (おこ.る)	angry 怒 画数9 759 Details Story Dictionary 怒 angry Heisig's Guy . . . heart. Koohii #1 This woman is angry because of the guys in the previous frame who pay more attention to her crotch than her heart. I prefer to decompose the kanji in three elements here because it is easier to read like a mnemonic. Koohii #2 WOMEN get very ANGRY over the thought that GUYS are more interested in her CROTCH than her HEART. Primitives angry, guy, woman, crotch, heart 怒り(いかり): anger, hatred 怒る(いかる): to get angry, to be angry 怒鳴る(どなる): to shout, to yell 怒る(おこる): get angry Kunyomi: いか.る、おこ.る Onyomi: ド、ヌ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 怒る (いか.る), 怒る (おこ.る)
friend Details Story Dictionary 友 friend Heisig's By one's side . . . crotch. Koohii #1 A good friend is always at your side. ---- I teach at a Japanese High School, and I often see chummy male students grabbing each other´s crotches in a joking manner. It´s still weird to me, but apparently reaching to your side and grabbing you neighbor´s crotch is a great way to express friendship. Koohii #2 Think of a sex friend (a fuck buddy if you will). The benefit of such a relationship is that there will always be a crotch by your side. (the Japanese refer to such a friend as セフレ, just as we do). Primitives friend, by one’s side, crotch 友(とも): friend, companion, pal 親友(しんゆう): close friend 友好(ゆうこう): friendship 友情(ゆうじょう): friendship, fellowship 友人(ゆうじん): friend 友達(ともだち): friend Kunyomi: とも Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 友 (とも)	friend 友 画数4 760 Details Story Dictionary 友 friend Heisig's By one's side . . . crotch. Koohii #1 A good friend is always at your side. ---- I teach at a Japanese High School, and I often see chummy male students grabbing each other´s crotches in a joking manner. It´s still weird to me, but apparently reaching to your side and grabbing you neighbor´s crotch is a great way to express friendship. Koohii #2 Think of a sex friend (a fuck buddy if you will). The benefit of such a relationship is that there will always be a crotch by your side. (the Japanese refer to such a friend as セフレ, just as we do). Primitives friend, by one’s side, crotch 友(とも): friend, companion, pal 親友(しんゆう): close friend 友好(ゆうこう): friendship 友情(ゆうじょう): friendship, fellowship 友人(ゆうじん): friend 友達(ともだち): friend Kunyomi: とも Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 友 (とも)
slip out Details Story Dictionary 抜 slip out Heisig's Fingers . . . friend. Koohii #1 Don´t let good friends slip out between your fingers. Koohii #2 Imagine a cliché Hollywood situation: one person is lying on the edge of the abyss and another (presumably his friend) is hanging, only thing holding him is the grip of their hands. Then fingers slip out of the grip and he falls in said abyss. Primitives slip out, finger, fingers, friend, woman, crotch 海抜(かいばつ): height above sea level 抜かす(ぬかす): to omit, to leave out 抜け出す(ぬけだす): to slip out, to sneak away, to excel 抜く(ぬく): extract, omit, surpass, draw out, unplug 抜ける(ぬける): come out, fall out, be omitted, be missing, escape Kunyomi: ぬ.く、-ぬ.く、ぬ.き、ぬ.ける、ぬ.かす、ぬ.かる Onyomi: バツ、ハツ、ハイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 抜かす (ぬ.かす), 抜かる (ぬ.かる), 抜く (ぬ.く), 抜ける (ぬ.ける)	slip out 抜 画数7 761 Details Story Dictionary 抜 slip out Heisig's Fingers . . . friend. Koohii #1 Don´t let good friends slip out between your fingers. Koohii #2 Imagine a cliché Hollywood situation: one person is lying on the edge of the abyss and another (presumably his friend) is hanging, only thing holding him is the grip of their hands. Then fingers slip out of the grip and he falls in said abyss. Primitives slip out, finger, fingers, friend, woman, crotch 海抜(かいばつ): height above sea level 抜かす(ぬかす): to omit, to leave out 抜け出す(ぬけだす): to slip out, to sneak away, to excel 抜く(ぬく): extract, omit, surpass, draw out, unplug 抜ける(ぬける): come out, fall out, be omitted, be missing, escape Kunyomi: ぬ.く、-ぬ.く、ぬ.き、ぬ.ける、ぬ.かす、ぬ.かる Onyomi: バツ、ハツ、ハイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 抜かす (ぬ.かす), 抜かる (ぬ.かる), 抜く (ぬ.く), 抜ける (ぬ.ける)
"throw Details Story Dictionary 投 throw My Story [My nigga MO + missile] My nigga *Mo* actually #threw# a *missile* with his fingers, what a G!!! Koohii #1 Well, you usually use your fingers to throw objects used as missile weapons. Easy. By the way, for those of you looking for a less anachronistic image for the missile primitive as a modern rocket, try a slingshot. it´s a crotch (originally a tree branch) that sends missile projectiles flying into/like the wind. And for this present kanji, it is something you naturally use with your fingers... Koohii #2 If you use the primitive ""semen"" (flying in the wind from your crotch) instead of missile then all kanjis with this primitive will hilariously create a perfect story. Primitives throw, finger, fingers, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 投資(とうし): investment 投入(とうにゅう): throw, investment, making (an electrical circuit) 投げ出す(なげだす): to throw down, to abandon, to sacrifice, to throw out 投書(とうしょ): letter to the editor, letter from a reader, contribution 投票(とうひょう): voting, poll 投げる(なげる): throw Kunyomi: な.げる、-な.げ Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 投げる (な.げる)"	"throw 投 画数7 762 Details Story Dictionary 投 throw My Story [My nigga MO + missile] My nigga *Mo* actually #threw# a *missile* with his fingers, what a G!!! Koohii #1 Well, you usually use your fingers to throw objects used as missile weapons. Easy. By the way, for those of you looking for a less anachronistic image for the missile primitive as a modern rocket, try a slingshot. it´s a crotch (originally a tree branch) that sends missile projectiles flying into/like the wind. And for this present kanji, it is something you naturally use with your fingers... Koohii #2 If you use the primitive ""semen"" (flying in the wind from your crotch) instead of missile then all kanjis with this primitive will hilariously create a perfect story. Primitives throw, finger, fingers, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 投資(とうし): investment 投入(とうにゅう): throw, investment, making (an electrical circuit) 投げ出す(なげだす): to throw down, to abandon, to sacrifice, to throw out 投書(とうしょ): letter to the editor, letter from a reader, contribution 投票(とうひょう): voting, poll 投げる(なげる): throw Kunyomi: な.げる、-な.げ Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 投げる (な.げる)"
"drown Details Story Dictionary 没 drown Heisig's Water . . . missile. Koohii #1 (Note: this kanji is more collapse/cave-in/sink (#1888) than humans drowning) A water missile? A torpedo! And when it hits it´s target? The ship collapses then sinks and everyone drowns! Koohii #2 The submarine´s hull was breached after being struck by a torpedo (""water missile""), causing the entire crew to drown. Primitives drown, water, water droplets, water pistol, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 沈没(ちんぼつ): sinking, foundering 没収(ぼっしゅう): forfeited 没落(ぼつらく): ruin, fall, collapse Kunyomi: おぼ.れる、しず.む、ない Onyomi: ボツ、モツ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"drown 没 画数7 763 Details Story Dictionary 没 drown Heisig's Water . . . missile. Koohii #1 (Note: this kanji is more collapse/cave-in/sink (#1888) than humans drowning) A water missile? A torpedo! And when it hits it´s target? The ship collapses then sinks and everyone drowns! Koohii #2 The submarine´s hull was breached after being struck by a torpedo (""water missile""), causing the entire crew to drown. Primitives drown, water, water droplets, water pistol, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 沈没(ちんぼつ): sinking, foundering 没収(ぼっしゅう): forfeited 没落(ぼつらく): ruin, fall, collapse Kunyomi: おぼ.れる、しず.む、ない Onyomi: ボツ、モツ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
thigh Details Story Dictionary 股 thigh Heisig's Flesh . . . missile. Koohii #1 Where´s my flesh missile? Between my thighs, naturally... Koohii #2 My thigh is the part of the body that my missile smacks against. Primitives thigh, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 股(また): groin, crotch, thigh Kunyomi: また、もも Onyomi: コ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 股 (また)	thigh 股 画数8 764 Details Story Dictionary 股 thigh Heisig's Flesh . . . missile. Koohii #1 Where´s my flesh missile? Between my thighs, naturally... Koohii #2 My thigh is the part of the body that my missile smacks against. Primitives thigh, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 股(また): groin, crotch, thigh Kunyomi: また、もも Onyomi: コ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 股 (また)
establishment Details Story Dictionary 設 establishment My Story When you attack the establishment with *words*, it fights back with *missiles*. Koohii #1 Establishment can be attacked by words or by missiles. Writers will use words, whereas militars will use missiles. Koohii #2 When you attack the establishment with words, it fights back with missiles. Primitives establishment, say, words, keitai, mouth, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 施設(しせつ): institution, establishment, facility, (army) engineer 設置(せっち): establishment, institution 設定(せってい): establishment, creation 設立(せつりつ): establishment, foundation, institution 設ける(もうける): to create, to establish 建設(けんせつ): construction, establishment 設計(せっけい): plan, design 設備(せつび): equipment, device, facilities, installation Kunyomi: もう.ける Onyomi: セツ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 設ける (もう.ける)	establishment 設 画数11 765 Details Story Dictionary 設 establishment My Story When you attack the establishment with *words*, it fights back with *missiles*. Koohii #1 Establishment can be attacked by words or by missiles. Writers will use words, whereas militars will use missiles. Koohii #2 When you attack the establishment with words, it fights back with missiles. Primitives establishment, say, words, keitai, mouth, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 施設(しせつ): institution, establishment, facility, (army) engineer 設置(せっち): establishment, institution 設定(せってい): establishment, creation 設立(せつりつ): establishment, foundation, institution 設ける(もうける): to create, to establish 建設(けんせつ): construction, establishment 設計(せっけい): plan, design 設備(せつび): equipment, device, facilities, installation Kunyomi: もう.ける Onyomi: セツ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 設ける (もう.ける)
beat (attack/conquer) Details Story Dictionary 撃 beat (attack/conquer) My Story Your car has missles?! That beats mine, hands down. Koohii #1 Your car has missles?! That beats mine, hands down. Koohii #2 Think 3 methods of attack all combined into 1 kanji: 1. Vehicle to transport troops 2. Once troops have disembarked they have their missiles 3. If they run out of missiles they resort to hand to hand combat to beat the enemy. Primitives beat, tank, car, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch, hand 襲撃(しゅうげき): attack, charge, raid 衝撃(しょうげき): shock, crash, impact, ballistic 打撃(だげき): blow, shock, strike, damage, batting (baseball) 反撃(はんげき): counterattack, counteroffensive, counterblow 撃つ(うつ): attack, defeat, destroy 攻撃(こうげき): attack, strike, offensive, criticism, censure Kunyomi: う.つ Onyomi: ゲキ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 撃つ (う.つ)	beat (attack/conquer) 撃 画数15 766 Details Story Dictionary 撃 beat (attack/conquer) My Story Your car has missles?! That beats mine, hands down. Koohii #1 Your car has missles?! That beats mine, hands down. Koohii #2 Think 3 methods of attack all combined into 1 kanji: 1. Vehicle to transport troops 2. Once troops have disembarked they have their missiles 3. If they run out of missiles they resort to hand to hand combat to beat the enemy. Primitives beat, tank, car, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch, hand 襲撃(しゅうげき): attack, charge, raid 衝撃(しょうげき): shock, crash, impact, ballistic 打撃(だげき): blow, shock, strike, damage, batting (baseball) 反撃(はんげき): counterattack, counteroffensive, counterblow 撃つ(うつ): attack, defeat, destroy 攻撃(こうげき): attack, strike, offensive, criticism, censure Kunyomi: う.つ Onyomi: ゲキ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 撃つ (う.つ)
husk Details Story Dictionary 殻 husk Heisig's Samurai . . . superfluous . . . missile. Koohii #1 Samurai´s husk/shell/armour is superflous to missile attacks 甲殻　卵殻　貝殻. Koohii #2 husk or shell. Japan´s recent history in a nutshell: first the samurai became superfluous and then the Americans started to throw missiles and bombs during WWII. Primitives husk, samurai, superfluous, crown, wind, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch, wind2 貝殻(かいがら): shell 殻(から): shell, husk, hull, chaff Kunyomi: から、がら Onyomi: カク、コク、バイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 殻 (から)	husk 殻 画数11 767 Details Story Dictionary 殻 husk Heisig's Samurai . . . superfluous . . . missile. Koohii #1 Samurai´s husk/shell/armour is superflous to missile attacks 甲殻　卵殻　貝殻. Koohii #2 husk or shell. Japan´s recent history in a nutshell: first the samurai became superfluous and then the Americans started to throw missiles and bombs during WWII. Primitives husk, samurai, superfluous, crown, wind, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch, wind2 貝殻(かいがら): shell 殻(から): shell, husk, hull, chaff Kunyomi: から、がら Onyomi: カク、コク、バイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 殻 (から)
branch Details Story Dictionary 支 branch Heisig's Needle . . . crotch. Koohii #1 Picture sliding down the branch of a tree (in this case a pine tree or any tree with needles) and getting a bunch of needles stuck in your crotch--ouch!! Koohii #2 A special branch of the military called the Needle Crotch Unit. Their only weapon is the needle embedded in their crotches, and they´re quite adept at using them. Primitives branch, ten, needle, crotch 差し支える(さしつかえる): to interfere, to hinder, to become impeded 支持(しじ): support, maintenance 収支(しゅうし): income and expenditure 支える(ささえる): support, prop up 差し支え(さしつかえ): hindrance, impediment 支給(しきゅう): payment, allowance 支出(ししゅつ): expenditure, expenses 支度(したく): preparation 支店(してん): branch store (office) 支配(しはい): rule, control, direction 支払(しはらい): payment 支払う(しはらう): to pay Kunyomi: ささ.える、つか.える、か.う、しんよう、じゅうまた Onyomi: シ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 支える (ささ.える)	branch 支 画数4 768 Details Story Dictionary 支 branch Heisig's Needle . . . crotch. Koohii #1 Picture sliding down the branch of a tree (in this case a pine tree or any tree with needles) and getting a bunch of needles stuck in your crotch--ouch!! Koohii #2 A special branch of the military called the Needle Crotch Unit. Their only weapon is the needle embedded in their crotches, and they´re quite adept at using them. Primitives branch, ten, needle, crotch 差し支える(さしつかえる): to interfere, to hinder, to become impeded 支持(しじ): support, maintenance 収支(しゅうし): income and expenditure 支える(ささえる): support, prop up 差し支え(さしつかえ): hindrance, impediment 支給(しきゅう): payment, allowance 支出(ししゅつ): expenditure, expenses 支度(したく): preparation 支店(してん): branch store (office) 支配(しはい): rule, control, direction 支払(しはらい): payment 支払う(しはらう): to pay Kunyomi: ささ.える、つか.える、か.う、しんよう、じゅうまた Onyomi: シ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 支える (ささ.える)
skill Details Story Dictionary 技 skill My Story A surgeon's skill with his *fingers* determines his *branch* of medicine. *My nigga MO* and his *support* {支} really improved my kanji skills Koohii #1 (Adapted from darg_sama´s) Balancing a branch on your finger is the prototypical example of a skill that is nothing more than a skill (i.e., it is completely useless). Koohii #2 I think of a guy balancing a branch on his finger, which definitely takes some minimal amount of skill. Primitives skill, finger, fingers, branch, ten, needle, crotch 技能(ぎのう): technical skill, ability, capacity 特技(とくぎ): special skill 技(わざ): art, technique 演技(えんぎ): acting, performance 技師(ぎし): engineer, technician 競技(きょうぎ): game, match, contest 技術(ぎじゅつ): technique Kunyomi: わざ Onyomi: ギ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 技 (わざ)	skill 技 画数7 769 Details Story Dictionary 技 skill My Story A surgeon's skill with his *fingers* determines his *branch* of medicine. *My nigga MO* and his *support* {支} really improved my kanji skills Koohii #1 (Adapted from darg_sama´s) Balancing a branch on your finger is the prototypical example of a skill that is nothing more than a skill (i.e., it is completely useless). Koohii #2 I think of a guy balancing a branch on his finger, which definitely takes some minimal amount of skill. Primitives skill, finger, fingers, branch, ten, needle, crotch 技能(ぎのう): technical skill, ability, capacity 特技(とくぎ): special skill 技(わざ): art, technique 演技(えんぎ): acting, performance 技師(ぎし): engineer, technician 競技(きょうぎ): game, match, contest 技術(ぎじゅつ): technique Kunyomi: わざ Onyomi: ギ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 技 (わざ)
bough Details Story Dictionary 枝 bough Heisig's Tree . . . branch. Take a moment to focus on the differences between a bough, a branch, and a twig (Frame 319). Koohii #1 The tree´s primary branch is known as the bough. Koohii #2 Differentiate between BOUGH and branch (#711): ´branch´ is smaller, and can also refer to the branch of a store (支店), which has nothing to do with a tree. But a BOUGH is a main part of a tree, perhaps where the trunk splits into several large boughs, and so it logically utilizes the 木 radical. Primitives bough, tree, wood, branch, ten, needle, crotch 枝(えだ): branch Kunyomi: えだ Onyomi: シ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 枝 (えだ)	bough 枝 画数8 770 Details Story Dictionary 枝 bough Heisig's Tree . . . branch. Take a moment to focus on the differences between a bough, a branch, and a twig (Frame 319). Koohii #1 The tree´s primary branch is known as the bough. Koohii #2 Differentiate between BOUGH and branch (#711): ´branch´ is smaller, and can also refer to the branch of a store (支店), which has nothing to do with a tree. But a BOUGH is a main part of a tree, perhaps where the trunk splits into several large boughs, and so it logically utilizes the 木 radical. Primitives bough, tree, wood, branch, ten, needle, crotch 枝(えだ): branch Kunyomi: えだ Onyomi: シ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 枝 (えだ)
"limb Details Story Dictionary 肢 limb Heisig's Part of the body . . . branch. Koohii #1 The limbs that this kanji represents are parts of the body that are connected to the trunk, like the main branches to a tree (“arms and legs” is the second meaning of this kanji). In other words, limbs are ""flesh branches"". Koohii #2 Limbs are body parts that branch off. Primitives limb, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, branch, ten, needle, crotch Kunyomi: Onyomi: シ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"limb 肢 画数8 771 Details Story Dictionary 肢 limb Heisig's Part of the body . . . branch. Koohii #1 The limbs that this kanji represents are parts of the body that are connected to the trunk, like the main branches to a tree (“arms and legs” is the second meaning of this kanji). In other words, limbs are ""flesh branches"". Koohii #2 Limbs are body parts that branch off. Primitives limb, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, branch, ten, needle, crotch Kunyomi: Onyomi: シ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"stalk Details Story Dictionary 茎 stalk Heisig's Flower . . . spool. Koohii #1 Suggestion: Replace ""spool"" with ""toilet paper/roll"". Reasons: (1) Toilet paper/roll usually comes on a spool. (2) Toilet paper is used to clean the soil off your crotch. Story: Just get a flower and carefully wrap some toilet paper around its stalk. Spool also appears in suspicious (#716), lightly (#717), diameter (#882), sutra (#1360). Koohii #2 PRIMITIVE: soiled crotch = soiled underwear. To precent anyone from picking the beautiful flower, the gardner hung soiled underwear on the stalk. Primitives stalk, flowers, spool, clod, toilet paper, crotch, soil, dirt, ground 茎(くき): stalk Kunyomi: くき Onyomi: ケイ、キョウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 茎 (くき)"	"stalk 茎 画数8 772 Details Story Dictionary 茎 stalk Heisig's Flower . . . spool. Koohii #1 Suggestion: Replace ""spool"" with ""toilet paper/roll"". Reasons: (1) Toilet paper/roll usually comes on a spool. (2) Toilet paper is used to clean the soil off your crotch. Story: Just get a flower and carefully wrap some toilet paper around its stalk. Spool also appears in suspicious (#716), lightly (#717), diameter (#882), sutra (#1360). Koohii #2 PRIMITIVE: soiled crotch = soiled underwear. To precent anyone from picking the beautiful flower, the gardner hung soiled underwear on the stalk. Primitives stalk, flowers, spool, clod, toilet paper, crotch, soil, dirt, ground 茎(くき): stalk Kunyomi: くき Onyomi: ケイ、キョウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 茎 (くき)"
suspicious Details Story Dictionary 怪 suspicious My Story [heart (standing) + take a dump] When I am suspicious, I my *heart* races and I *take a fat dump* Koohii #1 When you´re suspicious, your state of mind twists round and round like a spool of thread. Koohii #2 Imagine a loud farting sound on The Enterprise (sorry). Everyone looks around trying to find who did it. The one looking most suspicious is Data. His soiled crotch gives him away. Primitives suspicious, Freud, state of mind, spool, clod, toilet paper, crotch, soil, dirt, ground 怪獣(かいじゅう): monster 怪我(けが): injury, get hurt, be injured 怪しい(あやしい): suspicious, doubtful Kunyomi: あや.しい、あや.しむ Onyomi: カイ、ケ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 怪しい (あや.しい), 怪しむ (あや.しむ)	suspicious 怪 画数8 773 Details Story Dictionary 怪 suspicious My Story [heart (standing) + take a dump] When I am suspicious, I my *heart* races and I *take a fat dump* Koohii #1 When you´re suspicious, your state of mind twists round and round like a spool of thread. Koohii #2 Imagine a loud farting sound on The Enterprise (sorry). Everyone looks around trying to find who did it. The one looking most suspicious is Data. His soiled crotch gives him away. Primitives suspicious, Freud, state of mind, spool, clod, toilet paper, crotch, soil, dirt, ground 怪獣(かいじゅう): monster 怪我(けが): injury, get hurt, be injured 怪しい(あやしい): suspicious, doubtful Kunyomi: あや.しい、あや.しむ Onyomi: カイ、ケ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 怪しい (あや.しい), 怪しむ (あや.しむ)
lightly Details Story Dictionary 軽 lightly My Story [Car + jesus taking a dump] Yo I heard Jesus pulled up in a low-rider (car) and he lightly took a dump on CAS. Koohii #1 Fact: this kanji is used to denote a certain class of vehicles in Japan whose engines are under a certain size (less than 750cc I think) and are called light vehicles here. Imagine a so-called light vehicle or a light-truck with a load of spools driving down a road ever so lightly, careful not to let any of the spools roll out onto the street. Koohii #2 I want to tread lightly on the environment.... That´s why I CAR-SPOOL to work everyday.... I know, lame. Primitives lightly, car, spool, clod, toilet paper, crotch, soil, dirt, ground 気軽(きがる): cheerful, buoyant, lighthearted 軽快(けいかい): rhythmical (e.g. melody), casual (e.g. dress), light, nimble 軽減(けいげん): abatement 軽率(けいそつ): rash, thoughtless, careless, hasty 軽蔑(けいべつ): scorn, disdain 手軽(てがる): easy, simple, informal, offhand, cheap 軽い(かるい): light, non-serious, minor Kunyomi: かる.い、かろ.やか、かろ.んじる Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 軽い (かる.い), 軽やか (かろ.やか)	lightly 軽 画数12 774 Details Story Dictionary 軽 lightly My Story [Car + jesus taking a dump] Yo I heard Jesus pulled up in a low-rider (car) and he lightly took a dump on CAS. Koohii #1 Fact: this kanji is used to denote a certain class of vehicles in Japan whose engines are under a certain size (less than 750cc I think) and are called light vehicles here. Imagine a so-called light vehicle or a light-truck with a load of spools driving down a road ever so lightly, careful not to let any of the spools roll out onto the street. Koohii #2 I want to tread lightly on the environment.... That´s why I CAR-SPOOL to work everyday.... I know, lame. Primitives lightly, car, spool, clod, toilet paper, crotch, soil, dirt, ground 気軽(きがる): cheerful, buoyant, lighthearted 軽快(けいかい): rhythmical (e.g. melody), casual (e.g. dress), light, nimble 軽減(けいげん): abatement 軽率(けいそつ): rash, thoughtless, careless, hasty 軽蔑(けいべつ): scorn, disdain 手軽(てがる): easy, simple, informal, offhand, cheap 軽い(かるい): light, non-serious, minor Kunyomi: かる.い、かろ.やか、かろ.んじる Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 軽い (かる.い), 軽やか (かろ.やか)
uncle Details Story Dictionary 叔 uncle Heisig's Above . . . little . . . crotch. Koohii #1 Oh come on people - say what we´ve all been thinking: the uncle is that creepy guy towering above a little one´s crotch. Koohii #2 Four straight kanji here with 叔 in it, so let´s make one story: Your UNCLE was full of loneliness (#720) (寂), and he lived by himself. He was naturally graceful (#721) (淑) in the water, and you knew he was once on the Olympic synchronized swimming team). You knew that there was something different about him, but you joined his youth team and he watched over you carefully as coach (#719) (督). It was uncomfortable, though, how your uncle (#718) often touched you just a little above the crotch (叔) when coaching... Primitives uncle, above, small, little, crotch 叔父(おじ): uncle (younger than one´s parent) Kunyomi: Onyomi: シュク Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	uncle 叔 画数8 775 Details Story Dictionary 叔 uncle Heisig's Above . . . little . . . crotch. Koohii #1 Oh come on people - say what we´ve all been thinking: the uncle is that creepy guy towering above a little one´s crotch. Koohii #2 Four straight kanji here with 叔 in it, so let´s make one story: Your UNCLE was full of loneliness (#720) (寂), and he lived by himself. He was naturally graceful (#721) (淑) in the water, and you knew he was once on the Olympic synchronized swimming team). You knew that there was something different about him, but you joined his youth team and he watched over you carefully as coach (#719) (督). It was uncomfortable, though, how your uncle (#718) often touched you just a little above the crotch (叔) when coaching... Primitives uncle, above, small, little, crotch 叔父(おじ): uncle (younger than one´s parent) Kunyomi: Onyomi: シュク Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
coach Details Story Dictionary 督 coach Heisig's Uncle . . . eye. Koohii #1 Creepy uncle volunteers as gymnastics coach so he can eye the team from below. Koohii #2 Four straight kanji here with 叔 in it, so let´s make one story: Your UNCLE was full of loneliness (#720) (寂), and he lived by himself. He was naturally graceful (#721) (淑) in the water, and you knew he was once on the Olympic synchronized swimming team. You knew that there was something different about him, but you joined his youth team and he watched over you carefully as coach (#719) (督). It was uncomfortable, though, how your uncle (#718) often touched you just a little above the crotch (叔) when COACHing... Primitives coach, uncle, above, small, little, crotch, eye 監督(かんとく): supervision, control, superintendence Kunyomi: Onyomi: トク Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	coach 督 画数13 776 Details Story Dictionary 督 coach Heisig's Uncle . . . eye. Koohii #1 Creepy uncle volunteers as gymnastics coach so he can eye the team from below. Koohii #2 Four straight kanji here with 叔 in it, so let´s make one story: Your UNCLE was full of loneliness (#720) (寂), and he lived by himself. He was naturally graceful (#721) (淑) in the water, and you knew he was once on the Olympic synchronized swimming team. You knew that there was something different about him, but you joined his youth team and he watched over you carefully as coach (#719) (督). It was uncomfortable, though, how your uncle (#718) often touched you just a little above the crotch (叔) when COACHing... Primitives coach, uncle, above, small, little, crotch, eye 監督(かんとく): supervision, control, superintendence Kunyomi: Onyomi: トク Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
loneliness Details Story Dictionary 寂 loneliness My Story The uncle living alone has a crown, but no friends Koohii #1 The unmarried uncle´s house is the picture of lonlieness. Koohii #2 Four straight kanji here with 叔 in it, so let´s make one story: Your UNCLE was full of loneliness (#720) (寂), and he lived by himself. He was naturally graceful (#721) (淑) in the water, and you knew he was once on the Olympic synchronized swimming team. You knew that there was something different about him, but you joined his youth team and he watched over you carefully as coach (#719) (督). It was uncomfortable, though, how your uncle (#718) often touched you just a little above the crotch (叔) when coaching... Primitives loneliness, house, uncle, above, small, little, crotch 寂しい(さびしい): lonely Kunyomi: さび、さび.しい、さび.れる、さみ.しい Onyomi: ジャク、セキ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 寂滅 (じゃくめつ), 静寂 (せいじゃく), 閑寂 (かんじゃく), 寂 (さび), 寂しい (さび.しい), 寂れる (さび.れる)	loneliness 寂 画数11 777 Details Story Dictionary 寂 loneliness My Story The uncle living alone has a crown, but no friends Koohii #1 The unmarried uncle´s house is the picture of lonlieness. Koohii #2 Four straight kanji here with 叔 in it, so let´s make one story: Your UNCLE was full of loneliness (#720) (寂), and he lived by himself. He was naturally graceful (#721) (淑) in the water, and you knew he was once on the Olympic synchronized swimming team. You knew that there was something different about him, but you joined his youth team and he watched over you carefully as coach (#719) (督). It was uncomfortable, though, how your uncle (#718) often touched you just a little above the crotch (叔) when coaching... Primitives loneliness, house, uncle, above, small, little, crotch 寂しい(さびしい): lonely Kunyomi: さび、さび.しい、さび.れる、さみ.しい Onyomi: ジャク、セキ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 寂滅 (じゃくめつ), 静寂 (せいじゃく), 閑寂 (かんじゃく), 寂 (さび), 寂しい (さび.しい), 寂れる (さび.れる)
graceful Details Story Dictionary 淑 graceful Heisig's Water . . . uncle. Koohii #1 Uncle (the one who is lonely and coaches kids in his spare time) is actually a graceful guy once he hits the water, as he used to be part of the swimming team in his youth. Koohii #2 Four straight kanji here with 叔 in it, so let´s make one story: Your UNCLE was full of loneliness (#720) (寂), and he lived by himself. He was naturally graceful (#721) (淑) in the water, and you knew he was once on the Olympic synchronized swimming team. You knew that there was something different about him, but you joined his youth team and he watched over you carefully as coach (#719) (督). It was uncomfortable, though, how your uncle (#718) often touched you just a little above the crotch (叔) when coaching... Primitives graceful, water, water droplets, water pistol, uncle, above, small, little, crotch Kunyomi: しと.やか Onyomi: シュク Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	graceful 淑 画数11 778 Details Story Dictionary 淑 graceful Heisig's Water . . . uncle. Koohii #1 Uncle (the one who is lonely and coaches kids in his spare time) is actually a graceful guy once he hits the water, as he used to be part of the swimming team in his youth. Koohii #2 Four straight kanji here with 叔 in it, so let´s make one story: Your UNCLE was full of loneliness (#720) (寂), and he lived by himself. He was naturally graceful (#721) (淑) in the water, and you knew he was once on the Olympic synchronized swimming team. You knew that there was something different about him, but you joined his youth team and he watched over you carefully as coach (#719) (督). It was uncomfortable, though, how your uncle (#718) often touched you just a little above the crotch (叔) when coaching... Primitives graceful, water, water droplets, water pistol, uncle, above, small, little, crotch Kunyomi: しと.やか Onyomi: シュク Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
anti- Details Story Dictionary 反 anti- Heisig's Cliff . . . crotch. Koohii #1 I think of an anti-hero (Dirty Harry etc.) for this primitive, whose trademark for disposing of villians is not an honorable fight, but a kick in the crotch and then a shove off a cliff (perhaps whilst the villain´s back is turned). Koohii #2 Many cultures are so anti-sex you´d think they just want people to throw their crotches over a cliff. Primitives anti-, demonstation, cliff, crotch 反り(そり): warp, curvature, curve, arch 反(たん): roll of cloth (c. 10 yds.), .245 acres, 300 tsubo 反感(はんかん): antipathy, revolt, animosity 反響(はんきょう): echo, reverberation, repercussion, reaction, influence 反撃(はんげき): counterattack, counteroffensive, counterblow 反射(はんしゃ): reflection, reverberation 反する(はんする): to be inconsistent with, to oppose, to contradict, to transgress, to rebel 反応(はんのう): reaction, response 反発(はんぱつ): repelling, rebound, recover, oppose 反乱(はんらん): insurrection, mutiny, rebellion, revolt, uprising 違反(いはん): violation (of law), transgression 反る(かえる): change, turn over, turn upside down 反映(はんえい): reflection, influence 反抗(はんこう): opposition, resistance, insubordination, defiance, hostility, rebellion 反省(はんせい): reflection, reconsideration, introspection, meditation, contemplation 反対(はんたい): oppose Kunyomi: そ.る、そ.らす、かえ.す、かえ.る、-かえ.る Onyomi: ハン、ホン、タン、ホ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 反映 (はんえい), 反対 (はんたい), 違反 (いはん), 謀反 (むほん), 反らす (そ.らす), 反る (そ.る)	anti- 反 画数4 779 Details Story Dictionary 反 anti- Heisig's Cliff . . . crotch. Koohii #1 I think of an anti-hero (Dirty Harry etc.) for this primitive, whose trademark for disposing of villians is not an honorable fight, but a kick in the crotch and then a shove off a cliff (perhaps whilst the villain´s back is turned). Koohii #2 Many cultures are so anti-sex you´d think they just want people to throw their crotches over a cliff. Primitives anti-, demonstation, cliff, crotch 反り(そり): warp, curvature, curve, arch 反(たん): roll of cloth (c. 10 yds.), .245 acres, 300 tsubo 反感(はんかん): antipathy, revolt, animosity 反響(はんきょう): echo, reverberation, repercussion, reaction, influence 反撃(はんげき): counterattack, counteroffensive, counterblow 反射(はんしゃ): reflection, reverberation 反する(はんする): to be inconsistent with, to oppose, to contradict, to transgress, to rebel 反応(はんのう): reaction, response 反発(はんぱつ): repelling, rebound, recover, oppose 反乱(はんらん): insurrection, mutiny, rebellion, revolt, uprising 違反(いはん): violation (of law), transgression 反る(かえる): change, turn over, turn upside down 反映(はんえい): reflection, influence 反抗(はんこう): opposition, resistance, insubordination, defiance, hostility, rebellion 反省(はんせい): reflection, reconsideration, introspection, meditation, contemplation 反対(はんたい): oppose Kunyomi: そ.る、そ.らす、かえ.す、かえ.る、-かえ.る Onyomi: ハン、ホン、タン、ホ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 反映 (はんえい), 反対 (はんたい), 違反 (いはん), 謀反 (むほん), 反らす (そ.らす), 反る (そ.る)
slope Details Story Dictionary 坂 slope My Story Bruh! *Jesus* is *anti-*slope, Bruh! *Jesus* will throw any *anti-*believers down the hill Koohii #1 As the villain (pushed off by the anti-hero) is tumbling down the slope, he activates gadget skis to escape, spraying soil everywhere as he flies down the slope. Koohii #2 This kanji depicts a classic enviornmental problem: erosion. Erosion occurs when all of the soil washes of the side of the cliff, eventually causing the cliff to disappear, leaving a slope (an anti- cliff if you will) in its place. Primitives slope, soil, dirt, ground, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch 坂(さか): slope, hill Kunyomi: さか Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 坂 (さか)	slope 坂 画数7 780 Details Story Dictionary 坂 slope My Story Bruh! *Jesus* is *anti-*slope, Bruh! *Jesus* will throw any *anti-*believers down the hill Koohii #1 As the villain (pushed off by the anti-hero) is tumbling down the slope, he activates gadget skis to escape, spraying soil everywhere as he flies down the slope. Koohii #2 This kanji depicts a classic enviornmental problem: erosion. Erosion occurs when all of the soil washes of the side of the cliff, eventually causing the cliff to disappear, leaving a slope (an anti- cliff if you will) in its place. Primitives slope, soil, dirt, ground, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch 坂(さか): slope, hill Kunyomi: さか Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 坂 (さか)
plank Details Story Dictionary 板 plank Heisig's Tree . . . anti-. Koohii #1 Of course, trees are anti-plank. Wouldn´t you be if you were a tree? Koohii #2 Trees are naturally opposed to, or anti, the making of planks. Primitives plank, tree, wood, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch 板(いた): board, plank 看板(かんばん): sign, signboard, doorplate, poster, billboard, appearance, figurehead, policy, attraction, closing time 黒板(こくばん): blackboard Kunyomi: いた Onyomi: ハン、バン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 乾板 (かんばん), 鉄板 (てっぱん), 板 (いた)	plank 板 画数8 781 Details Story Dictionary 板 plank Heisig's Tree . . . anti-. Koohii #1 Of course, trees are anti-plank. Wouldn´t you be if you were a tree? Koohii #2 Trees are naturally opposed to, or anti, the making of planks. Primitives plank, tree, wood, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch 板(いた): board, plank 看板(かんばん): sign, signboard, doorplate, poster, billboard, appearance, figurehead, policy, attraction, closing time 黒板(こくばん): blackboard Kunyomi: いた Onyomi: ハン、バン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 乾板 (かんばん), 鉄板 (てっぱん), 板 (いた)
"return Details Story Dictionary 返 return My Story [Anti + Movement/motion] *Anti*FA's *movement* did not return any benefits to society Koohii #1 Pretty obvious: to return is to turn back on the road you´re on and go the opposite way. Koohii #2 In ""The Return of the anti-hero"", Clint Eastwood kicks the villain in the crotch, pushes them off the cliff and onto a busy highway. A tiring movie franchise to say the least.... Primitives return, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch, road 裏返し(うらがえし): inside out, upside down 折り返す(おりかえす): to turn up, to fold back 返る(かえる): to return, to come back, to go back 宙返り(ちゅうがえり): somersault, looping-the-loop 照り返す(てりかえす): to reflect, to throw back light 返還(へんかん): return, restoration 返済(へんさい): repayment 返事(へんじ): reply, answer 返答(へんとう): reply 裏返す(うらがえす): turn inside out, turn the other way, turn over 繰り返す(くりかえす): repeat, do over again 引返す(ひきかえす): repeat, send back, bring back, retrace one´s steps 引っ繰り返す(ひっくりかえす): turn over, overturn, knock over, upset, turn inside out 引っ繰り返る(ひっくりかえる): be overturned, be upset, topple over, be reversed 返す(かえす): return (something) Kunyomi: かえ.す、-かえ.す、かえ.る、-かえ.る Onyomi: ヘン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 返す (かえ.す), 返る (かえ.る)"	"return 返 画数7 782 Details Story Dictionary 返 return My Story [Anti + Movement/motion] *Anti*FA's *movement* did not return any benefits to society Koohii #1 Pretty obvious: to return is to turn back on the road you´re on and go the opposite way. Koohii #2 In ""The Return of the anti-hero"", Clint Eastwood kicks the villain in the crotch, pushes them off the cliff and onto a busy highway. A tiring movie franchise to say the least.... Primitives return, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch, road 裏返し(うらがえし): inside out, upside down 折り返す(おりかえす): to turn up, to fold back 返る(かえる): to return, to come back, to go back 宙返り(ちゅうがえり): somersault, looping-the-loop 照り返す(てりかえす): to reflect, to throw back light 返還(へんかん): return, restoration 返済(へんさい): repayment 返事(へんじ): reply, answer 返答(へんとう): reply 裏返す(うらがえす): turn inside out, turn the other way, turn over 繰り返す(くりかえす): repeat, do over again 引返す(ひきかえす): repeat, send back, bring back, retrace one´s steps 引っ繰り返す(ひっくりかえす): turn over, overturn, knock over, upset, turn inside out 引っ繰り返る(ひっくりかえる): be overturned, be upset, topple over, be reversed 返す(かえす): return (something) Kunyomi: かえ.す、-かえ.す、かえ.る、-かえ.る Onyomi: ヘン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 返す (かえ.す), 返る (かえ.る)"
marketing Details Story Dictionary 販 marketing Heisig's Shells/money . . . anti-. Koohii #1 The goal of marketing is to get people who are naturally anti-buying to spend their shells (money). Koohii #2 『MARKETING: MONEY, ANTI』 The wide presence of MARKETING in our society has led people to become ANTI-MONEY. Primitives marketing, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch 販売(はんばい): sale, selling, marketing Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	marketing 販 画数11 783 Details Story Dictionary 販 marketing Heisig's Shells/money . . . anti-. Koohii #1 The goal of marketing is to get people who are naturally anti-buying to spend their shells (money). Koohii #2 『MARKETING: MONEY, ANTI』 The wide presence of MARKETING in our society has led people to become ANTI-MONEY. Primitives marketing, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch 販売(はんばい): sale, selling, marketing Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
claw Details Story Dictionary 爪 claw Heisig's This character is a pictograph of a bird's claw, and from there comes to mean animal claws in general (including human fingernails). * As a primitive, we shall use the graphic image of a vulture, a bird known for its powerful claws. It generally appears above another primitive, in which case it gets squeezed into the form ⺥. Koohii #1 A pictograph of Wolverine´s adamantium claws. Koohii #2 Pictograph, see book. * I prefer the primitive meaning of an eagle rather than vulture. Somehow vulture makes me think more about meat and dead corpses than claws. An eagle however immediately brings to my mind the image of an eagle plunging into a stream catching fish in his claws, or that of the great eagles rescuing Bilbo and his party in Jrr Tolkien´s novel “Bilbo the Hobbit”. Primitives claw, vulture 爪(つめ): fingernail or toenail, claw, talon, hoof Kunyomi: つめ、つま- Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 爪 (つめつま)	claw 爪 画数4 784 Details Story Dictionary 爪 claw Heisig's This character is a pictograph of a bird's claw, and from there comes to mean animal claws in general (including human fingernails). * As a primitive, we shall use the graphic image of a vulture, a bird known for its powerful claws. It generally appears above another primitive, in which case it gets squeezed into the form ⺥. Koohii #1 A pictograph of Wolverine´s adamantium claws. Koohii #2 Pictograph, see book. * I prefer the primitive meaning of an eagle rather than vulture. Somehow vulture makes me think more about meat and dead corpses than claws. An eagle however immediately brings to my mind the image of an eagle plunging into a stream catching fish in his claws, or that of the great eagles rescuing Bilbo and his party in Jrr Tolkien´s novel “Bilbo the Hobbit”. Primitives claw, vulture 爪(つめ): fingernail or toenail, claw, talon, hoof Kunyomi: つめ、つま- Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 爪 (つめつま)
gentle Details Story Dictionary 妥 gentle Heisig's Vulture . . . woman. Koohii #1 Overly gentle women are vultures who want to marry you and steal your money - not true but an easy mnemonic! Koohii #2 An eagle must be extra gentle to pick up a dainty woman in its sharp claws. Primitives gentle, claw, vulture, woman 妥協(だきょう): compromise, giving in 妥結(だけつ): agreement 妥当(だとう): valid, proper, right, appropriate Kunyomi: Onyomi: ダ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	gentle 妥 画数7 785 Details Story Dictionary 妥 gentle Heisig's Vulture . . . woman. Koohii #1 Overly gentle women are vultures who want to marry you and steal your money - not true but an easy mnemonic! Koohii #2 An eagle must be extra gentle to pick up a dainty woman in its sharp claws. Primitives gentle, claw, vulture, woman 妥協(だきょう): compromise, giving in 妥結(だけつ): agreement 妥当(だとう): valid, proper, right, appropriate Kunyomi: Onyomi: ダ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
milk Details Story Dictionary 乳 milk My Story Milk is a hook that the mother uses to keep the child in the nest. Koohii #1 A fledgling is being nursed at a zoo, it is fed milk through a small tube that is bent in the shape of a hook (so that it fits inside its beak). The fledgling soon becomes addicted to milk, giving us this very catchy mnemonic: “fledgling hooked on milk”. Koohii #2 Drinking milk not only reduces cavity (#96)´s but also strengthens nails (claws) thanks astgtciv. Primitives milk, fledgling, claw, vulture, child, fishhook 乳(ちち): milk, breast, loop 牛乳(ぎゅうにゅう): cow´s milk Kunyomi: ちち、ち Onyomi: ニュウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 乳 (ち), 乳 (ちち)	milk 乳 画数8 786 Details Story Dictionary 乳 milk My Story Milk is a hook that the mother uses to keep the child in the nest. Koohii #1 A fledgling is being nursed at a zoo, it is fed milk through a small tube that is bent in the shape of a hook (so that it fits inside its beak). The fledgling soon becomes addicted to milk, giving us this very catchy mnemonic: “fledgling hooked on milk”. Koohii #2 Drinking milk not only reduces cavity (#96)´s but also strengthens nails (claws) thanks astgtciv. Primitives milk, fledgling, claw, vulture, child, fishhook 乳(ちち): milk, breast, loop 牛乳(ぎゅうにゅう): cow´s milk Kunyomi: ちち、ち Onyomi: ニュウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 乳 (ち), 乳 (ちち)
floating Details Story Dictionary 浮 floating Heisig's Water . . . fledglings. Koohii #1 Floating rubber ducky!!! Koohii #2 A nest of fledglings somehow fell into the water (maybe it was perched on a tree bending over the river), but they are safe for now as the nest is floating. The fledglings are enjoying the cruise but they are soon coming to a great waterfall... ( a little drama to help us remember the story). Primitives floating, water, water droplets, water pistol, fledgling, claw, vulture, child 浮かぶ(うかぶ): to float, to rise to surface, to come to mind 浮気(うわき): flighty, fickle, wanton, unfaithful 浮力(ふりょく): buoyancy, floating power 浮ぶ(うかぶ): float, rise to surface, come to mind 浮かべる(うかべる): float, express, look (sad, glad) 浮く(うく): float, become merry, become loose Kunyomi: う.く、う.かれる、う.かぶ、む、う.かべる Onyomi: フ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 浮かぶ (う.かぶ), 浮かべる (う.かべる), 浮かれる (う.かれる), 浮く (う.く)	floating 浮 画数10 787 Details Story Dictionary 浮 floating Heisig's Water . . . fledglings. Koohii #1 Floating rubber ducky!!! Koohii #2 A nest of fledglings somehow fell into the water (maybe it was perched on a tree bending over the river), but they are safe for now as the nest is floating. The fledglings are enjoying the cruise but they are soon coming to a great waterfall... ( a little drama to help us remember the story). Primitives floating, water, water droplets, water pistol, fledgling, claw, vulture, child 浮かぶ(うかぶ): to float, to rise to surface, to come to mind 浮気(うわき): flighty, fickle, wanton, unfaithful 浮力(ふりょく): buoyancy, floating power 浮ぶ(うかぶ): float, rise to surface, come to mind 浮かべる(うかべる): float, express, look (sad, glad) 浮く(うく): float, become merry, become loose Kunyomi: う.く、う.かれる、う.かぶ、む、う.かべる Onyomi: フ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 浮かぶ (う.かぶ), 浮かべる (う.かべる), 浮かれる (う.かれる), 浮く (う.く)
lewd Details Story Dictionary 淫 lewd Heisig's Water . . . vulture . . . porter. Koohii #1 The vulture is on top of the porter and appears to be commiting a lewd act, so I throw water over the pair of them. Koohii #2 Claw marks across the porters back from engaging in lewd acts in the shower. He is tipped well for carrying the lady´s bags to her room. Primitives lewd, water, water droplets, water pistol, claw, vulture, porter, drop, samurai Kunyomi: ひた.す、ほしいまま、みだ.ら、みだ.れる、みだり Onyomi: イン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 淫ら (みだ.ら)	lewd 淫 画数11 788 Details Story Dictionary 淫 lewd Heisig's Water . . . vulture . . . porter. Koohii #1 The vulture is on top of the porter and appears to be commiting a lewd act, so I throw water over the pair of them. Koohii #2 Claw marks across the porters back from engaging in lewd acts in the shower. He is tipped well for carrying the lady´s bags to her room. Primitives lewd, water, water droplets, water pistol, claw, vulture, porter, drop, samurai Kunyomi: ひた.す、ほしいまま、みだ.ら、みだ.れる、みだり Onyomi: イン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 淫ら (みだ.ら)
leader Details Story Dictionary 将 leader My Story [Backwards K + birds nest + glue] Koohii #1 The leader in this race is the turtle! It appears he has covered the vulture’s feet in glue, so that the vulture cannot get off the starting block. Koohii #2 X-men and TMNT join forces: Their new leader is an awsome asshole. He is simply Wolverine and Raphael glued together back to back (the biggest assholes from both groups combined). Primitives leader, turtle, claw, vulture, glue 将棋(しょうぎ): Japanese chess 将来(しょうらい): future Kunyomi: まさ.に、はた、まさ、ひきい.る、もって Onyomi: ショウ、ソウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	leader 将 画数10 789 Details Story Dictionary 将 leader My Story [Backwards K + birds nest + glue] Koohii #1 The leader in this race is the turtle! It appears he has covered the vulture’s feet in glue, so that the vulture cannot get off the starting block. Koohii #2 X-men and TMNT join forces: Their new leader is an awsome asshole. He is simply Wolverine and Raphael glued together back to back (the biggest assholes from both groups combined). Primitives leader, turtle, claw, vulture, glue 将棋(しょうぎ): Japanese chess 将来(しょうらい): future Kunyomi: まさ.に、はた、まさ、ひきい.る、もって Onyomi: ショウ、ソウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
exhort Details Story Dictionary 奨 exhort Heisig's Leader . . . St. Bernard dog. Do not confuse with urge (Frame 300). Koohii #1 It´s easy to picture a LEADER that uses a BIG dog to EXHORT his people to do more. Koohii #2 Here we have a St.Bernard exhorting the vulture to become the leader in the race against the turtle, but he can´t because of the glue. see leader (#731). Primitives exhort, leader, turtle, claw, vulture, glue, large, St. Bernard 奨励(しょうれい): encouragement, promotion, message, address 奨学金(しょうがくきん): scholarship Kunyomi: すす.める Onyomi: ショウ、ソウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	exhort 奨 画数13 790 Details Story Dictionary 奨 exhort Heisig's Leader . . . St. Bernard dog. Do not confuse with urge (Frame 300). Koohii #1 It´s easy to picture a LEADER that uses a BIG dog to EXHORT his people to do more. Koohii #2 Here we have a St.Bernard exhorting the vulture to become the leader in the race against the turtle, but he can´t because of the glue. see leader (#731). Primitives exhort, leader, turtle, claw, vulture, glue, large, St. Bernard 奨励(しょうれい): encouragement, promotion, message, address 奨学金(しょうがくきん): scholarship Kunyomi: すす.める Onyomi: ショウ、ソウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
grab Details Story Dictionary 采 grab Heisig's Vulture . . . tree. Koohii #1 You ever wondered why this appeared as a primitive in so many RTK1 kanji? Well, you should know that once a vulture grabs hold of a tree, he can never let go. Even Heisig couldn´t shake him loose. Koohii #2 A common meaning for this kanji is ´DICE´. --- Ever wonder what vultures do up in the trees? They play DICE. But of course, being vultures, they are always grabbing the dice away from each other. Primitives grab, claw, vulture, tree, wood Kunyomi: と.る、いろどり Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	grab 采 画数8 791 Details Story Dictionary 采 grab Heisig's Vulture . . . tree. Koohii #1 You ever wondered why this appeared as a primitive in so many RTK1 kanji? Well, you should know that once a vulture grabs hold of a tree, he can never let go. Even Heisig couldn´t shake him loose. Koohii #2 A common meaning for this kanji is ´DICE´. --- Ever wonder what vultures do up in the trees? They play DICE. But of course, being vultures, they are always grabbing the dice away from each other. Primitives grab, claw, vulture, tree, wood Kunyomi: と.る、いろどり Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"pick Details Story Dictionary 採 pick Heisig's Unlike pick up (Frame 720), this character is used for picking fruits from trees. Its elements: finger . . . grab. Koohii #1 You pick cheries with your fingers, then along comes a giant vulture and picks up the whole tree with its claws. Koohii #2 Tip: vulture + tree : Heisig later combines these into a single kanji 采 called grab (#2090). Story: As you go to pick your nose, your parent grabs your finger and pulls it away (& gives you a lecture on social etiquette). REF: ""grab"" also appears in vegetable (#734), coloring (#1714). Primitives pick, finger, fingers, grab, claw, vulture, tree, wood 採掘(さいくつ): mining 採決(さいけつ): vote, roll call 採算(さいさん): profit 採集(さいしゅう): collecting, gathering 採択(さいたく): adoption, selection, choice 採用(さいよう): use, adopt 採点(さいてん): marking, grading, looking over 採る(とる): adopt (measure, proposal), pick (fruit), assume (attitude) Kunyomi: と.る Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 採る (と.る)"	"pick 採 画数11 792 Details Story Dictionary 採 pick Heisig's Unlike pick up (Frame 720), this character is used for picking fruits from trees. Its elements: finger . . . grab. Koohii #1 You pick cheries with your fingers, then along comes a giant vulture and picks up the whole tree with its claws. Koohii #2 Tip: vulture + tree : Heisig later combines these into a single kanji 采 called grab (#2090). Story: As you go to pick your nose, your parent grabs your finger and pulls it away (& gives you a lecture on social etiquette). REF: ""grab"" also appears in vegetable (#734), coloring (#1714). Primitives pick, finger, fingers, grab, claw, vulture, tree, wood 採掘(さいくつ): mining 採決(さいけつ): vote, roll call 採算(さいさん): profit 採集(さいしゅう): collecting, gathering 採択(さいたく): adoption, selection, choice 採用(さいよう): use, adopt 採点(さいてん): marking, grading, looking over 採る(とる): adopt (measure, proposal), pick (fruit), assume (attitude) Kunyomi: と.る Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 採る (と.る)"
vegetable Details Story Dictionary 菜 vegetable Heisig's Flower . . . grab. Koohii #1 A vegetarian vulture is munching on a flower, perched on a tree, patiently waiting for a patch of vegetables to grow. Koohii #2 Wolverine is turning into total hippie. He said he only eats vegetables now and last time I saw him sitting in a tree with flowers in his hair. Primitives vegetable, flowers, grab, claw, vulture, tree, wood お菜(おかず): side dish, accompaniment for rice dishes 野菜(やさい): vegetable Kunyomi: な Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 菜 (な)	vegetable 菜 画数11 793 Details Story Dictionary 菜 vegetable Heisig's Flower . . . grab. Koohii #1 A vegetarian vulture is munching on a flower, perched on a tree, patiently waiting for a patch of vegetables to grow. Koohii #2 Wolverine is turning into total hippie. He said he only eats vegetables now and last time I saw him sitting in a tree with flowers in his hair. Primitives vegetable, flowers, grab, claw, vulture, tree, wood お菜(おかず): side dish, accompaniment for rice dishes 野菜(やさい): vegetable Kunyomi: な Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 菜 (な)
accept Details Story Dictionary 受 accept Heisig's Birdhouse . . . crotch. Koohii #1 The bird house is the brothel (someone else said so) and of course everyone is welcome - thay accept any crotch. Koohii #2 A birdhouse is a whorehouse that will accept any crotch even those with STDs. (Image: a birdhouse whorehouse with every kind of bird coming and going. Some old madam at the front hole accepts everyone, even the nasty old crows). Primitives accept, birdhouse, birdcage, claw, vulture, crown, crotch 受かる(うかる): to pass (examination) 受け入れ(うけいれ): receiving, acceptance 受け入れる(うけいれる): to accept, to receive 受け継ぐ(うけつぐ): to inherit, to succeed, to take over 受け付ける(うけつける): to be accepted, to receive (an application) 受け止める(うけとめる): to catch, to stop the blow, to react to, to take 受け取り(うけとり): receipt 受身(うけみ): passive, passive voice 享受(きょうじゅ): reception, acceptance, enjoyment, being given 引き受ける(ひきうける): to undertake, to take up, to take over, to be responsible for, to guarantee, to contract (disease) 受け取る(うけとる): to receive, to get, to accept, to take, to interpret, to understand 受け持つ(うけもつ): take (be in) charge of 受験(じゅけん): taking an examination 受話器(じゅわき): telephone receiver 引受る(ひきうける): undertake, take charge of, take, accept, be responsible for, guarantee 受付(うけつけ): reception 受ける(うける): have, take, receive Kunyomi: う.ける、-う.け、う.かる Onyomi: ジュ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 受かる (う.かる), 受ける (う.ける)	accept 受 画数8 794 Details Story Dictionary 受 accept Heisig's Birdhouse . . . crotch. Koohii #1 The bird house is the brothel (someone else said so) and of course everyone is welcome - thay accept any crotch. Koohii #2 A birdhouse is a whorehouse that will accept any crotch even those with STDs. (Image: a birdhouse whorehouse with every kind of bird coming and going. Some old madam at the front hole accepts everyone, even the nasty old crows). Primitives accept, birdhouse, birdcage, claw, vulture, crown, crotch 受かる(うかる): to pass (examination) 受け入れ(うけいれ): receiving, acceptance 受け入れる(うけいれる): to accept, to receive 受け継ぐ(うけつぐ): to inherit, to succeed, to take over 受け付ける(うけつける): to be accepted, to receive (an application) 受け止める(うけとめる): to catch, to stop the blow, to react to, to take 受け取り(うけとり): receipt 受身(うけみ): passive, passive voice 享受(きょうじゅ): reception, acceptance, enjoyment, being given 引き受ける(ひきうける): to undertake, to take up, to take over, to be responsible for, to guarantee, to contract (disease) 受け取る(うけとる): to receive, to get, to accept, to take, to interpret, to understand 受け持つ(うけもつ): take (be in) charge of 受験(じゅけん): taking an examination 受話器(じゅわき): telephone receiver 引受る(ひきうける): undertake, take charge of, take, accept, be responsible for, guarantee 受付(うけつけ): reception 受ける(うける): have, take, receive Kunyomi: う.ける、-う.け、う.かる Onyomi: ジュ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 受かる (う.かる), 受ける (う.ける)
impart / instruct Details Story Dictionary 授 impart / instruct My Story [My nigga mo + Receive {受}] *My nigga mo* will *receive* learning support if the school can't #instruct# him correctly. Koohii #1 Please accept this finger, you say, imparting it to your yakuza boss. Koohii #2 This character depicts a student and teacher. The teacher imparts his knowledge on the student, pointing the way and guiding with the finger. Meanwhile, the student sits there passively accepting the tutelage of his superior. Primitives impart, finger, fingers, accept, birdhouse, birdcage, claw, vulture, crown, crotch 授ける(さずける): to grant, to award, to teach 教授(きょうじゅ): teaching, instruction, professor 助教授(じょきょうじゅ): assistant professor 授業(じゅぎょう): lesson, class work Kunyomi: さず.ける、さず.かる Onyomi: ジュ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 授かる (さず.かる), 授ける (さず.ける)	impart / instruct 授 画数11 795 Details Story Dictionary 授 impart / instruct My Story [My nigga mo + Receive {受}] *My nigga mo* will *receive* learning support if the school can't #instruct# him correctly. Koohii #1 Please accept this finger, you say, imparting it to your yakuza boss. Koohii #2 This character depicts a student and teacher. The teacher imparts his knowledge on the student, pointing the way and guiding with the finger. Meanwhile, the student sits there passively accepting the tutelage of his superior. Primitives impart, finger, fingers, accept, birdhouse, birdcage, claw, vulture, crown, crotch 授ける(さずける): to grant, to award, to teach 教授(きょうじゅ): teaching, instruction, professor 助教授(じょきょうじゅ): assistant professor 授業(じゅぎょう): lesson, class work Kunyomi: さず.ける、さず.かる Onyomi: ジュ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 授かる (さず.かる), 授ける (さず.ける)
"love Details Story Dictionary 愛 love My Story Each bird in the *nest* loves the guy with the *moustache* from the bottom of its heart. Koohii #1 If you really love someone, you won´t keep them in a cage-like bird house relationship, but rather open the door and let their heart walk around freely. Think less about ""I"" (あい) and more about ""we"". Koohii #2 The man is about to enter the ´birdhouse´ (brothel) when he remembers his true love at home, and, following his heart, uses his walking legs to go straight home. Primitives love, birdhouse, birdcage, claw, vulture, crown, love birds, heart, walking legs 愛想(あいそ): civility, courtesy, compliments, sociability, graces 愛憎(あいにく): likes and dislikes 可愛い(かわいい): pretty, cute, lovely, charming, dear, darling, pet 可愛がる(かわいがる): to love, to be affectionate 可愛らしい(かわいらしい): lovely, sweet 愛でたい(めでたい): auspicious 恋愛(れんあい): love, love-making, passion, emotion, affections 愛(あい): love 愛情(あいじょう): love, affection 愛する(あいする): to love Kunyomi: いと.しい Onyomi: アイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"love 愛 画数13 796 Details Story Dictionary 愛 love My Story Each bird in the *nest* loves the guy with the *moustache* from the bottom of its heart. Koohii #1 If you really love someone, you won´t keep them in a cage-like bird house relationship, but rather open the door and let their heart walk around freely. Think less about ""I"" (あい) and more about ""we"". Koohii #2 The man is about to enter the ´birdhouse´ (brothel) when he remembers his true love at home, and, following his heart, uses his walking legs to go straight home. Primitives love, birdhouse, birdcage, claw, vulture, crown, love birds, heart, walking legs 愛想(あいそ): civility, courtesy, compliments, sociability, graces 愛憎(あいにく): likes and dislikes 可愛い(かわいい): pretty, cute, lovely, charming, dear, darling, pet 可愛がる(かわいがる): to love, to be affectionate 可愛らしい(かわいらしい): lovely, sweet 愛でたい(めでたい): auspicious 恋愛(れんあい): love, love-making, passion, emotion, affections 愛(あい): love 愛情(あいじょう): love, affection 愛する(あいする): to love Kunyomi: いと.しい Onyomi: アイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
"unclear Details Story Dictionary 曖 unclear Heisig's Sun . . . love. Koohii #1 The sun´s love is equivocal: it warms yet burns us. Koohii #2 曖昧。 On a sunny day, a guy professes his love to a girl he admires. But she gives him the common equivocal response, ""Let´s just be friends."". Primitives equivocal, sun, love, birdhouse, birdcage, claw, vulture, crown, love birds, heart, walking legs 曖昧(あいまい): vague, ambiguous Kunyomi: くら.い Onyomi: アイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"unclear 曖 画数17 797 Details Story Dictionary 曖 unclear Heisig's Sun . . . love. Koohii #1 The sun´s love is equivocal: it warms yet burns us. Koohii #2 曖昧。 On a sunny day, a guy professes his love to a girl he admires. But she gives him the common equivocal response, ""Let´s just be friends."". Primitives equivocal, sun, love, birdhouse, birdcage, claw, vulture, crown, love birds, heart, walking legs 曖昧(あいまい): vague, ambiguous Kunyomi: くら.い Onyomi: アイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
"pay Details Story Dictionary 払 pay Heisig's Finger . . . elbow. Koohii #1 You´re at a restaurant and raise your finger to indicate to the waiter that you want to pay. Your friend elbows you in the ribs -- it´s his shout, and he insists on taking care of the bill. Koohii #2 You are walking out of the restaurant when the waiter uses his FINGERS to grab you at the ELBOW and says, ""excuse me sir, didn´t you forget to PAY?"". Primitives pay, finger, fingers, elbow 支払(しはらい): payment 支払う(しはらう): to pay 払い込む(はらいこむ): deposit, pay in 払い戻す(はらいもどす): repay, pay back 酔っ払い(よっぱらい): drunkard 払う(はらう): pay Kunyomi: はら.う、-はら.い、-ばら.い Onyomi: フツ、ヒツ、ホツ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 払う (はら.う)"	"pay 払 画数5 798 Details Story Dictionary 払 pay Heisig's Finger . . . elbow. Koohii #1 You´re at a restaurant and raise your finger to indicate to the waiter that you want to pay. Your friend elbows you in the ribs -- it´s his shout, and he insists on taking care of the bill. Koohii #2 You are walking out of the restaurant when the waiter uses his FINGERS to grab you at the ELBOW and says, ""excuse me sir, didn´t you forget to PAY?"". Primitives pay, finger, fingers, elbow 支払(しはらい): payment 支払う(しはらう): to pay 払い込む(はらいこむ): deposit, pay in 払い戻す(はらいもどす): repay, pay back 酔っ払い(よっぱらい): drunkard 払う(はらう): pay Kunyomi: はら.う、-はら.い、-ばら.い Onyomi: フツ、ヒツ、ホツ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 払う (はら.う)"
"wide Details Story Dictionary 広 wide Heisig's Cave . . . elbow. Koohii #1 The Batcave is very wide and has a lot of elbow room for Batman to do his yoga. Koohii #2 A wide cave has a lot of ""elbow room"". Primitives wide, cave, elbow 広まる(ひろまる): to spread, to be propagated 広告(こうこく): advertisement 広がる(ひろがる): spread (out), extend, stretch, reach to, get around 広げる(ひろげる): spread, extend, expand, enlarge, widen, broaden, unfold, open, unroll 広さ(ひろさ): extent 広場(ひろば): plaza 広々(ひろびろ): extensive, spacious 広める(ひろめる): broaden, propagate 背広(せびろ): business suit 広い(ひろい): spacious, vast, wide Kunyomi: ひろ.い、ひろ.まる、ひろ.める、ひろ.がる、ひろ.げる Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 広い (ひろ.い), 広がる (ひろ.がる), 広げる (ひろ.げる), 広まる (ひろ.まる), 広める (ひろ.める)"	"wide 広 画数5 799 Details Story Dictionary 広 wide Heisig's Cave . . . elbow. Koohii #1 The Batcave is very wide and has a lot of elbow room for Batman to do his yoga. Koohii #2 A wide cave has a lot of ""elbow room"". Primitives wide, cave, elbow 広まる(ひろまる): to spread, to be propagated 広告(こうこく): advertisement 広がる(ひろがる): spread (out), extend, stretch, reach to, get around 広げる(ひろげる): spread, extend, expand, enlarge, widen, broaden, unfold, open, unroll 広さ(ひろさ): extent 広場(ひろば): plaza 広々(ひろびろ): extensive, spacious 広める(ひろめる): broaden, propagate 背広(せびろ): business suit 広い(ひろい): spacious, vast, wide Kunyomi: ひろ.い、ひろ.まる、ひろ.める、ひろ.がる、ひろ.げる Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 広い (ひろ.い), 広がる (ひろ.がる), 広げる (ひろ.げる), 広まる (ひろ.まる), 広める (ひろ.める)"
hooked Details Story Dictionary 勾 hooked Heisig's Bound up . . . elbow. Think of this key word in the sense of something that has been nabbed or cought. Koohii #1 Your elbow is bound up so that your biceps will stay flexed. Koohii #2 My elbow was bound up in a cast, making it impossible to keep it flexed. Primitives flexed, bound up, elbow Kunyomi: かぎ、ま.がる Onyomi: コウ、ク Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	hooked 勾 画数4 800 Details Story Dictionary 勾 hooked Heisig's Bound up . . . elbow. Think of this key word in the sense of something that has been nabbed or cought. Koohii #1 Your elbow is bound up so that your biceps will stay flexed. Koohii #2 My elbow was bound up in a cast, making it impossible to keep it flexed. Primitives flexed, bound up, elbow Kunyomi: かぎ、ま.がる Onyomi: コウ、ク Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
broaden Details Story Dictionary 拡 broaden Heisig's Fingers . . . wide. The connection with the previous character is very close. Beware. Koohii #1 Japanese girls are tight and may require fingers inserted to broaden them and make them wide enough before you can... Koohii #2 Spread your fingers wide to broaden your hand. Primitives broaden, finger, fingers, wide, cave, elbow 拡散(かくさん): scattering, diffusion 拡充(かくじゅう): expansion 拡大(かくだい): magnification, enlargement 拡張(かくちょう): expansion, extension, enlargement, escape Kunyomi: ひろ.がる、ひろ.げる、ひろ.める Onyomi: カク、コウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	broaden 拡 画数8 801 Details Story Dictionary 拡 broaden Heisig's Fingers . . . wide. The connection with the previous character is very close. Beware. Koohii #1 Japanese girls are tight and may require fingers inserted to broaden them and make them wide enough before you can... Koohii #2 Spread your fingers wide to broaden your hand. Primitives broaden, finger, fingers, wide, cave, elbow 拡散(かくさん): scattering, diffusion 拡充(かくじゅう): expansion 拡大(かくだい): magnification, enlargement 拡張(かくちょう): expansion, extension, enlargement, escape Kunyomi: ひろ.がる、ひろ.げる、ひろ.める Onyomi: カク、コウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
mineral Details Story Dictionary 鉱 mineral Heisig's Metal . . . wide. Koohii #1 Elbonium: a new mineral found in wide caves shaped like elbows and made of metal. Koohii #2 A wide range of metals are classed as minerals. Primitives mineral, metal, gold, wide, cave, elbow 鉱業(こうぎょう): mining industry 鉱山(こうざん): mine (ore) 鉱物(こうぶつ): mineral 炭鉱(たんこう): coal mine Kunyomi: あらがね Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	mineral 鉱 画数13 802 Details Story Dictionary 鉱 mineral Heisig's Metal . . . wide. Koohii #1 Elbonium: a new mineral found in wide caves shaped like elbows and made of metal. Koohii #2 A wide range of metals are classed as minerals. Primitives mineral, metal, gold, wide, cave, elbow 鉱業(こうぎょう): mining industry 鉱山(こうざん): mine (ore) 鉱物(こうぶつ): mineral 炭鉱(たんこう): coal mine Kunyomi: あらがね Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
valve Details Story Dictionary 弁 valve Heisig's Elbow . . . two hands. Koohii #1 Opening a stuck valve requires 2 hands and a lot of elbow grease. Koohii #2 The cubans build a pipe to flood the USA. Castro just has to turn the valve on it, and USA is flooded. Suddenly, CIA agents tackle him from behind, grabbing both his arms. But Castro manages to open the valve with his elbow, by raising the elbow above his head. Success! USA is no more... Primitives valve, elbow, two hands 勘弁(かんべん): pardon, forgiveness, forbearance 代弁(だいべん): pay by proxy, act for another, speak for another 弁解(べんかい): explanation, justification, defence, excuse 弁護(べんご): defense, pleading, advocacy 弁償(べんしょう): next word, compensation, reparation, indemnity, reimbursement 弁論(べんろん): discussion, debate, argument 弁当(べんとう): lunch box お弁当(おべんとう): lunch box Kunyomi: わきま.える、わ.ける、はなびら、あらそ.う Onyomi: ベン、ヘン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	valve 弁 画数5 803 Details Story Dictionary 弁 valve Heisig's Elbow . . . two hands. Koohii #1 Opening a stuck valve requires 2 hands and a lot of elbow grease. Koohii #2 The cubans build a pipe to flood the USA. Castro just has to turn the valve on it, and USA is flooded. Suddenly, CIA agents tackle him from behind, grabbing both his arms. But Castro manages to open the valve with his elbow, by raising the elbow above his head. Success! USA is no more... Primitives valve, elbow, two hands 勘弁(かんべん): pardon, forgiveness, forbearance 代弁(だいべん): pay by proxy, act for another, speak for another 弁解(べんかい): explanation, justification, defence, excuse 弁護(べんご): defense, pleading, advocacy 弁償(べんしょう): next word, compensation, reparation, indemnity, reimbursement 弁論(べんろん): discussion, debate, argument 弁当(べんとう): lunch box お弁当(おべんとう): lunch box Kunyomi: わきま.える、わ.ける、はなびら、あらそ.う Onyomi: ベン、ヘン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
male Details Story Dictionary 雄 male Heisig's By one's side . . . elbow . . . turkey. Its match is in frame 605. Koohii #1 Men walk with their elbows out from their sides in a weird turkey trot when they try to appear very MASCULINE. Think of a 70´s pimp walk. Koohii #2 Masculine duties are to offer your elbow to the lady by your left side and to cut the turkey on special meals. Primitives masculine, Yamanote, by one’s side, elbow, turkey 英雄(えいゆう): hero, great man 雄(おす): male (animal) Kunyomi: お-、おす、おん Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 雄 (お), 雄 (おす)	male 雄 画数12 804 Details Story Dictionary 雄 male Heisig's By one's side . . . elbow . . . turkey. Its match is in frame 605. Koohii #1 Men walk with their elbows out from their sides in a weird turkey trot when they try to appear very MASCULINE. Think of a 70´s pimp walk. Koohii #2 Masculine duties are to offer your elbow to the lady by your left side and to cut the turkey on special meals. Primitives masculine, Yamanote, by one’s side, elbow, turkey 英雄(えいゆう): hero, great man 雄(おす): male (animal) Kunyomi: お-、おす、おん Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 雄 (お), 雄 (おす)
"pedestal Details Story Dictionary 台 pedestal Heisig's Elbow . . . mouth. Koohii #1 When someone´s elbow is above your mouth he/she is probably standing on a pedestal. Koohii #2 After training your whole life, you manage to get a bronze medal in the Olympics. You´re extremely proud of your accomplishment as you step up to receive your medal. The guy in first place is up on a pedestal, towering above you, his elbow level with your mouth. Being a smug bastard, he ""accidentally"" knocks his elbow into your mouth, causing you to bleed and lose a tooth. Just cause he won the gold doesn´t mean he can place himself on such a high pedestal and do whatever he wants! Primitives pedestal, elbow, mouth 台無し(だいなし): mess, spoiled, (come to) nothing 台本(だいほん): libretto, scenario 土台(どだい): foundation, base, basis 寝台(しんだい): bed, couch 台(だい): stand, rack, table, support 灯台(とうだい): lighthouse 舞台(ぶたい): stage (theatre), scene or setting (e.g. of novel, play, etc.) 台風(たいふう): typhoon 台所(だいどころ): kitchen Kunyomi: うてな、われ、つかさ Onyomi: ダイ、タイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 台地 (だいち), 灯台 (とうだい), 一台 (いちだい)"	"pedestal 台 画数5 805 Details Story Dictionary 台 pedestal Heisig's Elbow . . . mouth. Koohii #1 When someone´s elbow is above your mouth he/she is probably standing on a pedestal. Koohii #2 After training your whole life, you manage to get a bronze medal in the Olympics. You´re extremely proud of your accomplishment as you step up to receive your medal. The guy in first place is up on a pedestal, towering above you, his elbow level with your mouth. Being a smug bastard, he ""accidentally"" knocks his elbow into your mouth, causing you to bleed and lose a tooth. Just cause he won the gold doesn´t mean he can place himself on such a high pedestal and do whatever he wants! Primitives pedestal, elbow, mouth 台無し(だいなし): mess, spoiled, (come to) nothing 台本(だいほん): libretto, scenario 土台(どだい): foundation, base, basis 寝台(しんだい): bed, couch 台(だい): stand, rack, table, support 灯台(とうだい): lighthouse 舞台(ぶたい): stage (theatre), scene or setting (e.g. of novel, play, etc.) 台風(たいふう): typhoon 台所(だいどころ): kitchen Kunyomi: うてな、われ、つかさ Onyomi: ダイ、タイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 台地 (だいち), 灯台 (とうだい), 一台 (いちだい)"
neglect Details Story Dictionary 怠 neglect Heisig's Pedestal . . . heart. Koohii #1 While standing on the pedestal at the award ceremony, the recipient heartlessly neglected to mention the people that got him there. Koohii #2 Someone you put on a pedestal will NEGLECT your heart. Primitives neglect, pedestal, elbow, mouth, heart 怠慢(たいまん): negligence, procrastination, carelessness 怠い(だるい): sluggish, feel heavy, languid, dull 怠る(おこたる): neglect, be off guard, be feeling better 怠ける(なまける): be idle, neglect Kunyomi: おこた.る、なま.ける Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 怠る (おこた.る), 怠ける (なま.ける)	neglect 怠 画数9 806 Details Story Dictionary 怠 neglect Heisig's Pedestal . . . heart. Koohii #1 While standing on the pedestal at the award ceremony, the recipient heartlessly neglected to mention the people that got him there. Koohii #2 Someone you put on a pedestal will NEGLECT your heart. Primitives neglect, pedestal, elbow, mouth, heart 怠慢(たいまん): negligence, procrastination, carelessness 怠い(だるい): sluggish, feel heavy, languid, dull 怠る(おこたる): neglect, be off guard, be feeling better 怠ける(なまける): be idle, neglect Kunyomi: おこた.る、なま.ける Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 怠る (おこた.る), 怠ける (なま.ける)
reign Details Story Dictionary 治 reign Heisig's Water . . . pedestal. Koohii #1 Build a moat around your pedestal to protect your reign of power. Koohii #2 From his water pedestal Neptune reigns over his Sea Empire. Primitives reign, water, water droplets, water pistol, pedestal, elbow, mouth 治まる(おさまる): to be at peace, to clamp down, to lessen (storm terror anger) 退治(たいじ): extermination 治安(ちあん): public order 治療(ちりょう): medical treatment 統治(とうじ): rule, reign, government, governing 治める(おさめる): govern, manage, subdue 自治(じち): self-government, autonomy 治す(なおす): cure, heal, fix, correct, repair 政治(せいじ): politic 治る(なおる): get well Kunyomi: おさ.める、おさ.まる、なお.る、なお.す Onyomi: ジ、チ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 政治 (せいじ), 療治 (りょうじ), 治まる (おさ.まる), 治める (おさ.める), 治す (なお.す), 治る (なお.る)	reign 治 画数8 807 Details Story Dictionary 治 reign Heisig's Water . . . pedestal. Koohii #1 Build a moat around your pedestal to protect your reign of power. Koohii #2 From his water pedestal Neptune reigns over his Sea Empire. Primitives reign, water, water droplets, water pistol, pedestal, elbow, mouth 治まる(おさまる): to be at peace, to clamp down, to lessen (storm terror anger) 退治(たいじ): extermination 治安(ちあん): public order 治療(ちりょう): medical treatment 統治(とうじ): rule, reign, government, governing 治める(おさめる): govern, manage, subdue 自治(じち): self-government, autonomy 治す(なおす): cure, heal, fix, correct, repair 政治(せいじ): politic 治る(なおる): get well Kunyomi: おさ.める、おさ.まる、なお.る、なお.す Onyomi: ジ、チ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 政治 (せいじ), 療治 (りょうじ), 治まる (おさ.まる), 治める (おさ.める), 治す (なお.す), 治る (なお.る)
metallurgy Details Story Dictionary 冶 metallurgy Heisig's Ice . . . pedestal. Koohii #1 The secrets of metallurgy and smithing: get your redhot metal and bang it against the pedestal as an anvil. Then cool it quickly with lots of ice. Koohii #2 An ICE PEDESTAL is useless in METALLURGY since it will just melt. Primitives metallurgy, ice, pedestal, elbow, mouth Kunyomi: い.る Onyomi: ヤ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	metallurgy 冶 画数7 808 Details Story Dictionary 冶 metallurgy Heisig's Ice . . . pedestal. Koohii #1 The secrets of metallurgy and smithing: get your redhot metal and bang it against the pedestal as an anvil. Then cool it quickly with lots of ice. Koohii #2 An ICE PEDESTAL is useless in METALLURGY since it will just melt. Primitives metallurgy, ice, pedestal, elbow, mouth Kunyomi: い.る Onyomi: ヤ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
commence Details Story Dictionary 始 commence Heisig's Woman . . . pedestal. Koohii #1 Many men, before they commence their relationship with the woman of their desires, place her on something of a pedestal, which often leads to disappointment later on. Koohii #2 If you want to commence a relationship, just put a woman on a pedestal and she´ll love ya forever. Primitives commence, woman, pedestal, elbow, mouth 始発(しはつ): first train 始末(しまつ): management, dealing, settlement, cleaning up afterwards 終始(しゅうし): beginning and end, from beginning to end, doing a thing from beginning to end 始め(はじめ): beginning, start, origin 始めまして(はじめまして): How do you do?, I am glad to meet you 開始(かいし): start, commencement, beginning 原始(げんし): origin, primeval 始終(しじゅう): continuously, from beginning to end 始まり(はじまり): origin, beginning 始めに(はじめに): in the beginning, to begin with, first of all 始める(はじめる): begin 始まる(はじまる): begin Kunyomi: はじ.める、-はじ.める、はじ.まる Onyomi: シ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 始まる (はじ.まる), 始める (はじ.める)	commence 始 画数8 809 Details Story Dictionary 始 commence Heisig's Woman . . . pedestal. Koohii #1 Many men, before they commence their relationship with the woman of their desires, place her on something of a pedestal, which often leads to disappointment later on. Koohii #2 If you want to commence a relationship, just put a woman on a pedestal and she´ll love ya forever. Primitives commence, woman, pedestal, elbow, mouth 始発(しはつ): first train 始末(しまつ): management, dealing, settlement, cleaning up afterwards 終始(しゅうし): beginning and end, from beginning to end, doing a thing from beginning to end 始め(はじめ): beginning, start, origin 始めまして(はじめまして): How do you do?, I am glad to meet you 開始(かいし): start, commencement, beginning 原始(げんし): origin, primeval 始終(しじゅう): continuously, from beginning to end 始まり(はじまり): origin, beginning 始めに(はじめに): in the beginning, to begin with, first of all 始める(はじめる): begin 始まる(はじまる): begin Kunyomi: はじ.める、-はじ.める、はじ.まる Onyomi: シ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 始まる (はじ.まる), 始める (はじ.める)
"womb Details Story Dictionary 胎 womb Heisig's Part of the body . . . pedestal. Koohii #1 The body part feminists like to put on a pedestal is the womb, especially when they hear a man complain about some responsibility. ""We give birth, so it´s your duty to do so-and-so"". Koohii #2 If any body part deserves to be put on a pedestal, it is the womb from which new life springs forth. Primitives womb, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, pedestal, elbow, mouth Kunyomi: Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"womb 胎 画数9 810 Details Story Dictionary 胎 womb Heisig's Part of the body . . . pedestal. Koohii #1 The body part feminists like to put on a pedestal is the womb, especially when they hear a man complain about some responsibility. ""We give birth, so it´s your duty to do so-and-so"". Koohii #2 If any body part deserves to be put on a pedestal, it is the womb from which new life springs forth. Primitives womb, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, pedestal, elbow, mouth Kunyomi: Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"window Details Story Dictionary 窓 window My Story [Hole {穴} + ム + Heart] Koohii #1 The top primitive is similar to hole (#1316). A window is a hole (#1316) in your house that you occassionally sit next to while leaning on your ELBOW and gazing out, a picture of a lonely HEARTedness. Koohii #2 Anna stood inside the house 宀 on her human legs 儿 enjoying some private 厶 time, looking out the window and communing with the feelings that were in her heart 心. The first five strokes are actually 穴、あな, ""hole,"" introduced later. 窓、まど, window; 窓口、まどぐち, ticket window; 車窓、しゃそう, car window. Primitives window, hole, house, human legs, elbow, heart 窓口(まどぐち): ticket window 窓(まど): window Kunyomi: まど、てんまど、けむだし Onyomi: ソウ、ス Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 窓 (まど)"	"window 窓 画数11 811 Details Story Dictionary 窓 window My Story [Hole {穴} + ム + Heart] Koohii #1 The top primitive is similar to hole (#1316). A window is a hole (#1316) in your house that you occassionally sit next to while leaning on your ELBOW and gazing out, a picture of a lonely HEARTedness. Koohii #2 Anna stood inside the house 宀 on her human legs 儿 enjoying some private 厶 time, looking out the window and communing with the feelings that were in her heart 心. The first five strokes are actually 穴、あな, ""hole,"" introduced later. 窓、まど, window; 窓口、まどぐち, ticket window; 車窓、しゃそう, car window. Primitives window, hole, house, human legs, elbow, heart 窓口(まどぐち): ticket window 窓(まど): window Kunyomi: まど、てんまど、けむだし Onyomi: ソウ、ス Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 窓 (まど)"
gone Details Story Dictionary 去 gone Heisig's Soil . . . elbow. Koohii #1 Going, going, GONE!, said the gravedigger as he shoveled soil onto the body´s protruding elbow (the last bit left to cover). Koohii #2 If you want the soil stains gone from your clothes, then you´ll need to put some elbow grease into cleaning them. Primitives gone, soil, dirt, ground, elbow 消去(しょうきょ): elimination, erasing, dying out, melting away 過去(かこ): the past, bygone days, the previous 去る(さる): leave, go away 去年(きょねん): last year Kunyomi: さ.る、-さ.る Onyomi: キョ、コ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 去年 (きょねん), 去就 (きょしゅう), 除去 (じょきょ), 去る (さ.る)	gone 去 画数5 812 Details Story Dictionary 去 gone Heisig's Soil . . . elbow. Koohii #1 Going, going, GONE!, said the gravedigger as he shoveled soil onto the body´s protruding elbow (the last bit left to cover). Koohii #2 If you want the soil stains gone from your clothes, then you´ll need to put some elbow grease into cleaning them. Primitives gone, soil, dirt, ground, elbow 消去(しょうきょ): elimination, erasing, dying out, melting away 過去(かこ): the past, bygone days, the previous 去る(さる): leave, go away 去年(きょねん): last year Kunyomi: さ.る、-さ.る Onyomi: キョ、コ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 去年 (きょねん), 去就 (きょしゅう), 除去 (じょきょ), 去る (さ.る)
method Details Story Dictionary 法 method Heisig's Water . . . gone. Koohii #1 This kanji shows up in a lot of words related to the legal process. Try this image: using a very outdated judicial method, the people of Salem dunked accused witches in the water until they were all gone. Koohii #2 There already was a system (#418) for butchering cows, a technique (#421) for turning smoke into flowers - why can´t there be a method of about the same relevance for making water gone? Evaporation anyone? Primitives method, water, water droplets, water pistol, gone, soil, dirt, ground, elbow 司法(しほう): administration of justice 手法(しゅほう): technique 寸法(すんぽう): measurement, size, dimension 製法(せいほう): manufacturing method, recipe, formula 法(ほう): law 法案(ほうあん): bill (law) 法学(ほうがく): law, jurisprudence 法廷(ほうてい): courtroom 用法(ようほう): directions, rules of use 立法(りっぽう): legislation, lawmaking 憲法(けんぽう): constitution 作法(さほう): manners, etiquette, propriety 法則(ほうそく): law, rule 方法(ほうほう): method, process, manner, way, means, technique 文法(ぶんぽう): grammar 法律(ほうりつ): law Kunyomi: のり Onyomi: ホウ、ハッ、ホッ、フラン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 法律 (ほうりつ), 文法 (ぶんぽう), 方法 (ほうほう), 法度 (ほうど)	method 法 画数8 813 Details Story Dictionary 法 method Heisig's Water . . . gone. Koohii #1 This kanji shows up in a lot of words related to the legal process. Try this image: using a very outdated judicial method, the people of Salem dunked accused witches in the water until they were all gone. Koohii #2 There already was a system (#418) for butchering cows, a technique (#421) for turning smoke into flowers - why can´t there be a method of about the same relevance for making water gone? Evaporation anyone? Primitives method, water, water droplets, water pistol, gone, soil, dirt, ground, elbow 司法(しほう): administration of justice 手法(しゅほう): technique 寸法(すんぽう): measurement, size, dimension 製法(せいほう): manufacturing method, recipe, formula 法(ほう): law 法案(ほうあん): bill (law) 法学(ほうがく): law, jurisprudence 法廷(ほうてい): courtroom 用法(ようほう): directions, rules of use 立法(りっぽう): legislation, lawmaking 憲法(けんぽう): constitution 作法(さほう): manners, etiquette, propriety 法則(ほうそく): law, rule 方法(ほうほう): method, process, manner, way, means, technique 文法(ぶんぽう): grammar 法律(ほうりつ): law Kunyomi: のり Onyomi: ホウ、ハッ、ホッ、フラン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 法律 (ほうりつ), 文法 (ぶんぽう), 方法 (ほうほう), 法度 (ほうど)
meeting Details Story Dictionary 会 meeting Heisig's Meeting . . . wall. This is the full character for meeting, from which the abbreviated primitive that we met back in lesson 12 gets its name. Koohii #1 At the local company they have a very gory way of getting rid of incompetent personnel : they arrange a business meeting in a very special room where the walls are ... meeting. Not surprisingly the boss is never present at these meetings, he´s the one who pushes the button that sets the walls in motion. Koohii #2 The only thing created in most meetings is a lot of hot air. Imagine a cloud of it rising to the roof. Primitives meeting, meeting, one, wall, umbrella, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall 会(え): understanding 会(かい): meeting, assembly, party, association, club 会見(かいけん): interview, audience 会談(かいだん): conversation, conference, discussion, interview 協会(きょうかい): association, society, organization 再会(さいかい): another meeting, meeting again, reunion 座談会(ざだんかい): symposium, round-table discussion 総会(そうかい): general meeting 出会う(であう): to meet by chance, to come across, to happen to encounter, to hold a rendezvous, to have a date 面会(めんかい): interview 宴会(えんかい): party, banquet 会員(かいいん): member, the membership 開会(かいかい): opening of a meeting 会館(かいかん): meeting hall, assembly hall 会計(かいけい): account, finance, accountant, treasurer, paymaster, reckoning, bill 会合(かいごう): meeting, assembly 学会(がっかい): scientific society, academic meeting 議会(ぎかい): Diet, congress, parliament 国会(こっかい): National Diet, parliament, congress 司会(しかい): chairmanship 社会科学(しゃかいかがく): social science 集会(しゅうかい): meeting, assembly 大会(たいかい): convention, tournament, mass meeting, rally 出会い(であい): meeting, rendezvous, encounter 都会(とかい): city 閉会(へいかい): closure 会議(かいぎ): meeting 会場(かいじょう): the place of meeting 会話(かいわ): conversation 機会(きかい): opportunity, chance 教会(きょうかい): church 社会(しゃかい): society 展覧会(てんらんかい): exhibition 会う(あう): to meet, to interview 会社(かいしゃ): company, corporation Kunyomi: あ.う、あ.わせる、あつ.まる Onyomi: カイ、エ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 会話 (かいわ), 会計 (かいけい), 社会 (しゃかい), 会う (あ.う)	meeting 会 画数6 814 Details Story Dictionary 会 meeting Heisig's Meeting . . . wall. This is the full character for meeting, from which the abbreviated primitive that we met back in lesson 12 gets its name. Koohii #1 At the local company they have a very gory way of getting rid of incompetent personnel : they arrange a business meeting in a very special room where the walls are ... meeting. Not surprisingly the boss is never present at these meetings, he´s the one who pushes the button that sets the walls in motion. Koohii #2 The only thing created in most meetings is a lot of hot air. Imagine a cloud of it rising to the roof. Primitives meeting, meeting, one, wall, umbrella, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall 会(え): understanding 会(かい): meeting, assembly, party, association, club 会見(かいけん): interview, audience 会談(かいだん): conversation, conference, discussion, interview 協会(きょうかい): association, society, organization 再会(さいかい): another meeting, meeting again, reunion 座談会(ざだんかい): symposium, round-table discussion 総会(そうかい): general meeting 出会う(であう): to meet by chance, to come across, to happen to encounter, to hold a rendezvous, to have a date 面会(めんかい): interview 宴会(えんかい): party, banquet 会員(かいいん): member, the membership 開会(かいかい): opening of a meeting 会館(かいかん): meeting hall, assembly hall 会計(かいけい): account, finance, accountant, treasurer, paymaster, reckoning, bill 会合(かいごう): meeting, assembly 学会(がっかい): scientific society, academic meeting 議会(ぎかい): Diet, congress, parliament 国会(こっかい): National Diet, parliament, congress 司会(しかい): chairmanship 社会科学(しゃかいかがく): social science 集会(しゅうかい): meeting, assembly 大会(たいかい): convention, tournament, mass meeting, rally 出会い(であい): meeting, rendezvous, encounter 都会(とかい): city 閉会(へいかい): closure 会議(かいぎ): meeting 会場(かいじょう): the place of meeting 会話(かいわ): conversation 機会(きかい): opportunity, chance 教会(きょうかい): church 社会(しゃかい): society 展覧会(てんらんかい): exhibition 会う(あう): to meet, to interview 会社(かいしゃ): company, corporation Kunyomi: あ.う、あ.わせる、あつ.まる Onyomi: カイ、エ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 会話 (かいわ), 会計 (かいけい), 社会 (しゃかい), 会う (あ.う)
climax Details Story Dictionary 至 climax Heisig's Wall . . . soil. The key word allows for the full variety of connotations: to peak, to arrive at the end, and the like. Koohii #1 Sexual climaxes don´t always happen on the bed; they sometimes happen against a wall or on the ground! Koohii #2 The climax of the Berlin Wall affair was the tearing of it to ground. Primitives climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground 至って(いたって): very much, exceedingly, extremely 乃至(ないし): from...to, between...and, or 至る(いたる): come, arrive 至急(しきゅう): urgent Kunyomi: いた.る Onyomi: シ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 至る (いた.る)	climax 至 画数6 815 Details Story Dictionary 至 climax Heisig's Wall . . . soil. The key word allows for the full variety of connotations: to peak, to arrive at the end, and the like. Koohii #1 Sexual climaxes don´t always happen on the bed; they sometimes happen against a wall or on the ground! Koohii #2 The climax of the Berlin Wall affair was the tearing of it to ground. Primitives climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground 至って(いたって): very much, exceedingly, extremely 乃至(ないし): from...to, between...and, or 至る(いたる): come, arrive 至急(しきゅう): urgent Kunyomi: いた.る Onyomi: シ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 至る (いた.る)
"room Details Story Dictionary 室 room Heisig's House . . . climax. Koohii #1 You book a room in a love hotel called ""Climax House"". Koohii #2 A simple room is made up of a roof, some walls, and a dirt floor. Primitives room, house, climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground 室(しつ): room 控室(ひかえしつ): waiting room 浴室(よくしつ): bathroom, bath 温室(おんしつ): greenhouse 待合室(まちあいしつ): waiting room 研究室(けんきゅうしつ): study (room) 教室(きょうしつ): classroom Kunyomi: むろ Onyomi: シツ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 室 (むろ)"	"room 室 画数9 816 Details Story Dictionary 室 room Heisig's House . . . climax. Koohii #1 You book a room in a love hotel called ""Climax House"". Koohii #2 A simple room is made up of a roof, some walls, and a dirt floor. Primitives room, house, climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground 室(しつ): room 控室(ひかえしつ): waiting room 浴室(よくしつ): bathroom, bath 温室(おんしつ): greenhouse 待合室(まちあいしつ): waiting room 研究室(けんきゅうしつ): study (room) 教室(きょうしつ): classroom Kunyomi: むろ Onyomi: シツ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 室 (むろ)"
arrival Details Story Dictionary 到 arrival Heisig's Climax . . . saber. Koohii #1 Http://img168.imageshack.us/img168/7731/karatesd3.jpg Just look at this image... Koohii #2 Just as we were about to climax her father arrived with a sword. Primitives arrival, climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground, sword, sabre, saber 到達(とうたつ): reaching, attaining, arrival 到底(とうてい): (cannot) possibly 到着(とうちゃく): arrival Kunyomi: いた.る Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	arrival 到 画数8 817 Details Story Dictionary 到 arrival Heisig's Climax . . . saber. Koohii #1 Http://img168.imageshack.us/img168/7731/karatesd3.jpg Just look at this image... Koohii #2 Just as we were about to climax her father arrived with a sword. Primitives arrival, climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground, sword, sabre, saber 到達(とうたつ): reaching, attaining, arrival 到底(とうてい): (cannot) possibly 到着(とうちゃく): arrival Kunyomi: いた.る Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
"doth Details Story Dictionary 致 doth Heisig's The archaic English form for ""does"" indicates a humble form of the verb ""to do."" It is made up of climax and taskmaster. Koohii #1 To reach climax I doth the bidding of my dominatrix taskmaster. Koohii #2 This character is used in two very high-frequency words: ""you are welcome"" (どう致しまして) and the honorific form of onegaishimasu (お願い致します; おねがいいたします). Can´t you just picture this ridiculously polite S&M picture? A businessman, who DOTH the bidding of his taskmistress, is climaxing and yelling out ""お願い致します"" while she whips and says ""どう致しまして"". (This kanji also means ""to bring about"" and ""do humbly"", which is perfect for this image). Primitives doth, climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground, taskmaster 雅致(がち): artistry, good taste, elegance, grace 合致(がっち): agreement, concurrence, conforming to 一致(いっち): coincidence, agreement, union, match, conformity, consistency, cooperation 致す(いたす): do Kunyomi: いた.す Onyomi: チ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 致す (いた.す)"	"doth 致 画数10 818 Details Story Dictionary 致 doth Heisig's The archaic English form for ""does"" indicates a humble form of the verb ""to do."" It is made up of climax and taskmaster. Koohii #1 To reach climax I doth the bidding of my dominatrix taskmaster. Koohii #2 This character is used in two very high-frequency words: ""you are welcome"" (どう致しまして) and the honorific form of onegaishimasu (お願い致します; おねがいいたします). Can´t you just picture this ridiculously polite S&M picture? A businessman, who DOTH the bidding of his taskmistress, is climaxing and yelling out ""お願い致します"" while she whips and says ""どう致しまして"". (This kanji also means ""to bring about"" and ""do humbly"", which is perfect for this image). Primitives doth, climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground, taskmaster 雅致(がち): artistry, good taste, elegance, grace 合致(がっち): agreement, concurrence, conforming to 一致(いっち): coincidence, agreement, union, match, conformity, consistency, cooperation 致す(いたす): do Kunyomi: いた.す Onyomi: チ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 致す (いた.す)"
mutually Details Story Dictionary 互 mutually Heisig's When you draw this character think of linking two walls together, one right side up and the other upside down. Koohii #1 The 69 position allows both parties to mutually give themselves pleasure. Koohii #2 If you can combined your walls with another house´s walls, both houses would mutually benefit, by the increase in size.... Primitives mutually, one, ceiling, one, floor 交互(こうご): mutual, reciprocal, alternate お互い(おたがい): mutual, reciprocal, each other 相互(そうご): mutual, reciprocal 互い(たがい): mutual, reciprocal Kunyomi: たが.い、かたみ.に Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 互い (たが.い)	mutually 互 画数4 819 Details Story Dictionary 互 mutually Heisig's When you draw this character think of linking two walls together, one right side up and the other upside down. Koohii #1 The 69 position allows both parties to mutually give themselves pleasure. Koohii #2 If you can combined your walls with another house´s walls, both houses would mutually benefit, by the increase in size.... Primitives mutually, one, ceiling, one, floor 交互(こうご): mutual, reciprocal, alternate お互い(おたがい): mutual, reciprocal, each other 相互(そうご): mutual, reciprocal 互い(たがい): mutual, reciprocal Kunyomi: たが.い、かたみ.に Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 互い (たが.い)
abandon Details Story Dictionary 棄 abandon Heisig's Infant . . . buckle (See frame 444) . . . tree. Koohii #1 Think of a really loud and annoying baby, you want to abandon it but it keeps coming back...so you take of your belt by the buckle, and buckle the baby to a tree! Koohii #2 As in sash (#415), I treat the one mountain in the middle to mean Mt. Fuji (Japan´s ichiban mountain). Now we see an infant being abandoned on top of Mt. Fuji well above the tree line to die of exposure. Primitives abandon, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, buckle, tree, wood 棄権(きけん): abstain from voting, renunciation of a right 廃棄(はいき): annullment, disposal, abandon, scrap, discarding, repeal 破棄(はき): revocation, annulment, breaking (e.g. treaty) 放棄(ほうき): abandonment, renunciation, abdication (responsibility right) 棄てる(すてる): throw away, cast aside, abandon, resign Kunyomi: す.てる Onyomi: キ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	abandon 棄 画数13 820 Details Story Dictionary 棄 abandon Heisig's Infant . . . buckle (See frame 444) . . . tree. Koohii #1 Think of a really loud and annoying baby, you want to abandon it but it keeps coming back...so you take of your belt by the buckle, and buckle the baby to a tree! Koohii #2 As in sash (#415), I treat the one mountain in the middle to mean Mt. Fuji (Japan´s ichiban mountain). Now we see an infant being abandoned on top of Mt. Fuji well above the tree line to die of exposure. Primitives abandon, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, buckle, tree, wood 棄権(きけん): abstain from voting, renunciation of a right 廃棄(はいき): annullment, disposal, abandon, scrap, discarding, repeal 破棄(はき): revocation, annulment, breaking (e.g. treaty) 放棄(ほうき): abandonment, renunciation, abdication (responsibility right) 棄てる(すてる): throw away, cast aside, abandon, resign Kunyomi: す.てる Onyomi: キ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
bring up Details Story Dictionary 育 bring up My Story Bring up your *infant* well, so that he doesn't follow any *moon* cults [An infant is simply *MUlan* wearing a *beret*] Koohii #1 Bringing up your offspring means raising them from infant until they are meat ready to be harvested. What, cannibalism is in poor taste? Forget I ever brought it up. But bring up will forver be infant meat to me. I want my baby back baby back baby back ribs! Koohii #2 I will bring up my infants to eat meat. I´ll not endure any vegetarian children in my house! Primitives bring up, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 育成(いくせい): rearing, training, nurture, cultivation, promotion 飼育(しいく): breeding, raising, rearing 生育(せいいく): growth, development, breeding 育ち(そだち): breeding, growth 発育(はついく): (physical) growth, development 保育(ほいく): nursing, nurturing, rearing, lactation, suckling 育児(いくじ): childcare, nursing, upbringing 育つ(そだつ): bring up, be brought up, grow (up) 体育(たいいく): physical education, gymnastics, athletics 教育(きょういく): education 育てる(そだてる): bring up Kunyomi: そだ.つ、そだ.ち、そだ.てる、はぐく.む Onyomi: イク Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 育つ (そだ.つ), 育てる (そだ.てる)	bring up 育 画数8 821 Details Story Dictionary 育 bring up My Story Bring up your *infant* well, so that he doesn't follow any *moon* cults [An infant is simply *MUlan* wearing a *beret*] Koohii #1 Bringing up your offspring means raising them from infant until they are meat ready to be harvested. What, cannibalism is in poor taste? Forget I ever brought it up. But bring up will forver be infant meat to me. I want my baby back baby back baby back ribs! Koohii #2 I will bring up my infants to eat meat. I´ll not endure any vegetarian children in my house! Primitives bring up, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 育成(いくせい): rearing, training, nurture, cultivation, promotion 飼育(しいく): breeding, raising, rearing 生育(せいいく): growth, development, breeding 育ち(そだち): breeding, growth 発育(はついく): (physical) growth, development 保育(ほいく): nursing, nurturing, rearing, lactation, suckling 育児(いくじ): childcare, nursing, upbringing 育つ(そだつ): bring up, be brought up, grow (up) 体育(たいいく): physical education, gymnastics, athletics 教育(きょういく): education 育てる(そだてる): bring up Kunyomi: そだ.つ、そだ.ち、そだ.てる、はぐく.む Onyomi: イク Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 育つ (そだ.つ), 育てる (そだ.てる)
remove Details Story Dictionary 撤 remove Heisig's Fingers . . . bring up . . . taskmaster. Koohii #1 Don´t lay a finger on him, a concerned mother says as the state REMOVES her child away for upbringing by a taskmaster foster home. Koohii #2 A terrible yakuza taskmaster is bringing up his infant. Every time the infant does something wrong... well, you know what happens to yakuzas when they do something wrong. Primitives remove, finger, fingers, borstal, bring up, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, taskmaster Kunyomi: Onyomi: テツ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	remove 撤 画数15 822 Details Story Dictionary 撤 remove Heisig's Fingers . . . bring up . . . taskmaster. Koohii #1 Don´t lay a finger on him, a concerned mother says as the state REMOVES her child away for upbringing by a taskmaster foster home. Koohii #2 A terrible yakuza taskmaster is bringing up his infant. Every time the infant does something wrong... well, you know what happens to yakuzas when they do something wrong. Primitives remove, finger, fingers, borstal, bring up, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, taskmaster Kunyomi: Onyomi: テツ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"fill up / allot Details Story Dictionary 充 fill up / allot My Story [Infant + Human Legs] An *infant* will only be Allotted 2 walking *legs* by the human genome. Koohii #1 Scene at the baby factory: Manager: ""Good news! Your infant has been allotted human legs"". Parent to be: ""Thanks a lot!"". Koohii #2 In China, to prevent too many human legs walking around, couples are alloted only one infant…　RTK2:　ジュウ　補充　ほじゅう(supplement)…　Semi-Pure Group:　銃762　(ﾄｳ): 統1347. Primitives allot, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, human legs 充実(じゅうじつ): fullness, completion, perfection, substantiality, enrichment 補充(ほじゅう): supplementation, supplement, replenishment, replenishing 拡充(かくじゅう): expansion Kunyomi: あ.てる、み.たす Onyomi: ジュウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 充てる (あ.てる)"	"fill up / allot 充 画数6 823 Details Story Dictionary 充 fill up / allot My Story [Infant + Human Legs] An *infant* will only be Allotted 2 walking *legs* by the human genome. Koohii #1 Scene at the baby factory: Manager: ""Good news! Your infant has been allotted human legs"". Parent to be: ""Thanks a lot!"". Koohii #2 In China, to prevent too many human legs walking around, couples are alloted only one infant…　RTK2:　ジュウ　補充　ほじゅう(supplement)…　Semi-Pure Group:　銃762　(ﾄｳ): 統1347. Primitives allot, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, human legs 充実(じゅうじつ): fullness, completion, perfection, substantiality, enrichment 補充(ほじゅう): supplementation, supplement, replenishment, replenishing 拡充(かくじゅう): expansion Kunyomi: あ.てる、み.たす Onyomi: ジュウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 充てる (あ.てる)"
gun Details Story Dictionary 銃 gun Heisig's Metal . . . allot. Koohii #1 Everyone is allotted a metal gun (US constitution according to the NRA). Koohii #2 What is a gun but a device for allotting pieces of metal? One for you - BANG!...One for you - BANG!...One for you - BANG!...One for you - BANG!...etc. Primitives gun, metal, gold, allot, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, human legs 銃(つつ): gun 銃(じゅう): gun Kunyomi: つつ Onyomi: ジュウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	gun 銃 画数14 824 Details Story Dictionary 銃 gun Heisig's Metal . . . allot. Koohii #1 Everyone is allotted a metal gun (US constitution according to the NRA). Koohii #2 What is a gun but a device for allotting pieces of metal? One for you - BANG!...One for you - BANG!...One for you - BANG!...One for you - BANG!...etc. Primitives gun, metal, gold, allot, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, human legs 銃(つつ): gun 銃(じゅう): gun Kunyomi: つつ Onyomi: ジュウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
sulfur Details Story Dictionary 硫 sulfur Heisig's Rock . . . infant . . . flood. Koohii #1 Sulphur is like a rock, but it can stink like a stream of infant doodie. Koohii #2 Infants are baptised in streams inorder to prevent their descent into a place of sulphur and brimstone. Primitives sulphur, stone, rock, lifebelt, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, stream, flood Kunyomi: Onyomi: リュウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	sulfur 硫 画数12 825 Details Story Dictionary 硫 sulfur Heisig's Rock . . . infant . . . flood. Koohii #1 Sulphur is like a rock, but it can stink like a stream of infant doodie. Koohii #2 Infants are baptised in streams inorder to prevent their descent into a place of sulphur and brimstone. Primitives sulphur, stone, rock, lifebelt, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, stream, flood Kunyomi: Onyomi: リュウ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
current Details Story Dictionary 流 current My Story Water + infant + river The *water* carried the *infant* along the *river's* current Koohii #1 INFANT Moses placed in the WATER and sent down the current of the STREAM. Koohii #2 A water-breathing infant (genetically modified?) is caught in a flood, and drifts with the current, apparently enjoying himself in the process. Primitives current, water, water droplets, water pistol, lifebelt, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, stream, flood 海流(かいりゅう): ocean current 気流(きりゅう): atmospheric current 流し(ながし): sink 流れる(ながれる): stream, flow, be washed away, run (ink) 流行(はやり): fashionable, fad, in vogue, prevailing 流(りゅう): styleof, method of, manner of 流通(りゅうつう): circulation of money or goods, flow of water or air, distribution 一流(いちりゅう): foremost, top-notch, unique 交流(こうりゅう): alternating current, intercourse, (cultural) exchange, intermingling 合流(ごうりゅう): confluence, union, linking up, merge 流石(さすが): clever, adept, good, expectations, as one would expect 直流(ちょくりゅう): direct current 電流(でんりゅう): electric current 流す(ながす): drain, float, shed (blood, tears) 流れ(ながれ): stream, current 流行る(はやる): flourish, thrive, be popular, come into fashion 流域(りゅういき): (river) basin 流行(りゅうこう): fashionable, fad, in vogue, prevailing Kunyomi: なが.れる、なが.れ、なが.す、-なが.す Onyomi: リュウ、ル Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 流行 (りゅうこう), 流動 (りゅうどう), 電流 (でんりゅう), 流す (なが.す), 流れる (なが.れる)	current 流 画数10 826 Details Story Dictionary 流 current My Story Water + infant + river The *water* carried the *infant* along the *river's* current Koohii #1 INFANT Moses placed in the WATER and sent down the current of the STREAM. Koohii #2 A water-breathing infant (genetically modified?) is caught in a flood, and drifts with the current, apparently enjoying himself in the process. Primitives current, water, water droplets, water pistol, lifebelt, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, stream, flood 海流(かいりゅう): ocean current 気流(きりゅう): atmospheric current 流し(ながし): sink 流れる(ながれる): stream, flow, be washed away, run (ink) 流行(はやり): fashionable, fad, in vogue, prevailing 流(りゅう): styleof, method of, manner of 流通(りゅうつう): circulation of money or goods, flow of water or air, distribution 一流(いちりゅう): foremost, top-notch, unique 交流(こうりゅう): alternating current, intercourse, (cultural) exchange, intermingling 合流(ごうりゅう): confluence, union, linking up, merge 流石(さすが): clever, adept, good, expectations, as one would expect 直流(ちょくりゅう): direct current 電流(でんりゅう): electric current 流す(ながす): drain, float, shed (blood, tears) 流れ(ながれ): stream, current 流行る(はやる): flourish, thrive, be popular, come into fashion 流域(りゅういき): (river) basin 流行(りゅうこう): fashionable, fad, in vogue, prevailing Kunyomi: なが.れる、なが.れ、なが.す、-なが.す Onyomi: リュウ、ル Lesson: 23 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 流行 (りゅうこう), 流動 (りゅうどう), 電流 (でんりゅう), 流す (なが.す), 流れる (なが.れる)
license Details Story Dictionary 允 license Heisig's Elbow . . . human legs. Koohii #1 In some Asian kung-fu version of James Bond, the main protagonist has a “License To Kill” with his deadly elbows and human legs. His suit is always stained of red blood at the elbows and lower legs (this to help create an image that distinguish the two elements). Koohii #2 A midget driver trying to pass the road test to get their driver´s license. Their elbows are too short to turn the wheel and their legs are too short to reach the gas and breaks. Primitives license, elbow, human legs Kunyomi: じょう、まこと.に、ゆるす Onyomi: イン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	license 允 画数4 827 Details Story Dictionary 允 license Heisig's Elbow . . . human legs. Koohii #1 In some Asian kung-fu version of James Bond, the main protagonist has a “License To Kill” with his deadly elbows and human legs. His suit is always stained of red blood at the elbows and lower legs (this to help create an image that distinguish the two elements). Koohii #2 A midget driver trying to pass the road test to get their driver´s license. Their elbows are too short to turn the wheel and their legs are too short to reach the gas and breaks. Primitives license, elbow, human legs Kunyomi: じょう、まこと.に、ゆるす Onyomi: イン Lesson: 23 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
tempt Details Story Dictionary 唆 tempt Heisig's Mouth . . . license . . . walking legs. Koohii #1 I named the right part legal prostitute has it represents a walker [walking legs] with the license. It´s easy to imagine a legal prostitute tempting a man with her mouth. Koohii #2 Prostitutes in Amsterdam have a license to show off their walking legs and tempt customers with their mouths. Primitives tempt, mouth, streetwalker, Ministry of silly walks, John Cleese, license, elbow, human legs, walking legs Kunyomi: そそのか.す Onyomi: サ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 唆す (そそのか.す)	tempt 唆 画数10 828 Details Story Dictionary 唆 tempt Heisig's Mouth . . . license . . . walking legs. Koohii #1 I named the right part legal prostitute has it represents a walker [walking legs] with the license. It´s easy to imagine a legal prostitute tempting a man with her mouth. Koohii #2 Prostitutes in Amsterdam have a license to show off their walking legs and tempt customers with their mouths. Primitives tempt, mouth, streetwalker, Ministry of silly walks, John Cleese, license, elbow, human legs, walking legs Kunyomi: そそのか.す Onyomi: サ Lesson: 23 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 唆す (そそのか.す)
exit Details Story Dictionary 出 exit Heisig's The kanji for exit pictures a series of mountain peaks coming out of the earth. Learn it together with the following frame. Koohii #1 Suddenly, a cactus comes out of the ground with a sign that reads: exit. Now you can leave the desert! (Note: giving this primitive the meaning ´cactus´ can be useful later). Koohii #2 The exit lays between these two mountains. Primitives exit 家出(いえで): running away from home, leaving home 売り出し(うりだし): (bargain) sale 売り出す(うりだす): to put on sale, to market, to become popular 演出(えんしゅつ): production (e.g. play), direction 追い出す(おいだす): to expel, to drive out お出でになる(おいでになる): to be お目出度う(おめでとう): (ateji) (int) (uk) Congratulations!, an auspicious occasion! 差し出す(さしだす): to present, to submit, to tender, to hold out 産出(さんしゅつ): yield, produce 出演(しゅつえん): performance, stage appearance 出血(しゅっけつ): bleeding, haemorrhage 出産(しゅっさん): (child)birth, delivery, production (of goods) 出社(しゅっしゃ): arrival (in a country at work etc.) 出生(しゅっしょう): birth 出世(しゅっせ): promotion, successful career, eminence 出題(しゅつだい): proposing a question 出動(しゅつどう): sailing, marching, going out 出費(しゅっぴ): expenses, disbursements 出品(しゅっぴん): exhibit, display 進出(しんしゅつ): advance, step forward 脱出(だっしゅつ): escape 出会う(であう): to meet by chance, to come across, to happen to encounter, to hold a rendezvous, to have a date 出合う(であう): to meet by chance, to come across, to happen to encounter, to hold a rendezvous, to have a date 出入り口(でいりぐち): exit and entrance 出来物(できもの): able man, tumour, growth, boil, ulcer, abcess, rash, pimple 出切る(できる): to be out of, to have no more at hand 出くわす(でくわす): to happen to meet, to come across 出鱈目(でたらめ): irresponsible utterance, nonsense, nonsensical, random, haphazard, unsystematic 出直し(でなおし): adjustment, touch up 投げ出す(なげだす): to throw down, to abandon, to sacrifice, to throw out 逃げ出す(にげだす): to run away, to escape from 抜け出す(ぬけだす): to slip out, to sneak away, to excel 引き出す(ひきだす): to pull out, to take out, to draw out, to withdraw 振り出し(ふりだし): outset, starting point, drawing or issuing (draft) 噴出(ふんしゅつ): spewing, gushing, spouting, eruption, effusion 放出(ほうしゅつ): release, emit 放り出す(ほうりだす): to throw out, to fire, to expel, to give up, to abandon, to neglect 申出(もうしで): proposal, request, claim, report, notice 申し出る(もうしでる): to report to, to tell, to suggest, to submit, to request, to make an offer, to come forward with information 言い出す(いいだす): start talking, propose, suggest, break the ice お出掛け(おでかけ): about to start out, just about to leave or go out 思い出(おもいで): memories, recollections, reminiscence 外出(がいしゅつ): outing, going out 貸し出し(かしだし): lending, loaning 支出(ししゅつ): expenditure, expenses 出勤(しゅっきん): going to work, at work 出身(しゅっしん): person´s place of origin, institution from which one graduated, director in charge of employee relations 出張(しゅっちょう): official tour, business trip 出版(しゅっぱん): publication 出合い(であい): an encounter 出会い(であい): meeting, rendezvous, encounter 提出(ていしゅつ): presentation, submission, filing 出入り(でいり): in and out, coming and going, free association, income and expenditure, debits and credit 出掛ける(でかける): depart, set out, start, be going out 出来上がり(できあがり): finish, completion, ready, made for, cut out 出来上がる(できあがる): be finished, be ready, by definition, be very drunk 出来事(できごと): incident, affair, happening, event 出来るだけ(できるだけ): if at all possible 出迎え(でむかえ): meeting, reception 出迎える(でむかえる): to meet, to greet 飛び出す(とびだす): jump out, rush out, fly out, appear suddenly, protrude, project 取り出す(とりだす): take out, produce, pick out 引出す(ひきだす): pull out, take out, draw out, withdraw 日の出(ひので): sunrise 見出し(みだし): heading, caption, subtitle, index 呼び出す(よびだす): summon, call (e.g. via telephone) 思い出す(おもいだす): recall, remember 出席(しゅっせき): attend 出発(しゅっぱつ): depart 引き出し(ひきだし): drawer 輸出(ゆしゅつ): export 出す(だす): take out, put out, send 出かける(でかける): depart, go out (e.g. on an excursion or outing), set out, start 出口(でぐち): exit, gateway, way out, outlet, leak, vent 出る(でる): appear, come forth, leave Kunyomi: で.る、-で、だ.す、-だ.す、い.でる、い.だす Onyomi: シュツ、スイ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 出入 (しゅつにゅう), 出現 (しゅつげん), 提出 (ていしゅつ), 出す (だ.す), 出る (で.る)	exit 出 画数5 829 Details Story Dictionary 出 exit Heisig's The kanji for exit pictures a series of mountain peaks coming out of the earth. Learn it together with the following frame. Koohii #1 Suddenly, a cactus comes out of the ground with a sign that reads: exit. Now you can leave the desert! (Note: giving this primitive the meaning ´cactus´ can be useful later). Koohii #2 The exit lays between these two mountains. Primitives exit 家出(いえで): running away from home, leaving home 売り出し(うりだし): (bargain) sale 売り出す(うりだす): to put on sale, to market, to become popular 演出(えんしゅつ): production (e.g. play), direction 追い出す(おいだす): to expel, to drive out お出でになる(おいでになる): to be お目出度う(おめでとう): (ateji) (int) (uk) Congratulations!, an auspicious occasion! 差し出す(さしだす): to present, to submit, to tender, to hold out 産出(さんしゅつ): yield, produce 出演(しゅつえん): performance, stage appearance 出血(しゅっけつ): bleeding, haemorrhage 出産(しゅっさん): (child)birth, delivery, production (of goods) 出社(しゅっしゃ): arrival (in a country at work etc.) 出生(しゅっしょう): birth 出世(しゅっせ): promotion, successful career, eminence 出題(しゅつだい): proposing a question 出動(しゅつどう): sailing, marching, going out 出費(しゅっぴ): expenses, disbursements 出品(しゅっぴん): exhibit, display 進出(しんしゅつ): advance, step forward 脱出(だっしゅつ): escape 出会う(であう): to meet by chance, to come across, to happen to encounter, to hold a rendezvous, to have a date 出合う(であう): to meet by chance, to come across, to happen to encounter, to hold a rendezvous, to have a date 出入り口(でいりぐち): exit and entrance 出来物(できもの): able man, tumour, growth, boil, ulcer, abcess, rash, pimple 出切る(できる): to be out of, to have no more at hand 出くわす(でくわす): to happen to meet, to come across 出鱈目(でたらめ): irresponsible utterance, nonsense, nonsensical, random, haphazard, unsystematic 出直し(でなおし): adjustment, touch up 投げ出す(なげだす): to throw down, to abandon, to sacrifice, to throw out 逃げ出す(にげだす): to run away, to escape from 抜け出す(ぬけだす): to slip out, to sneak away, to excel 引き出す(ひきだす): to pull out, to take out, to draw out, to withdraw 振り出し(ふりだし): outset, starting point, drawing or issuing (draft) 噴出(ふんしゅつ): spewing, gushing, spouting, eruption, effusion 放出(ほうしゅつ): release, emit 放り出す(ほうりだす): to throw out, to fire, to expel, to give up, to abandon, to neglect 申出(もうしで): proposal, request, claim, report, notice 申し出る(もうしでる): to report to, to tell, to suggest, to submit, to request, to make an offer, to come forward with information 言い出す(いいだす): start talking, propose, suggest, break the ice お出掛け(おでかけ): about to start out, just about to leave or go out 思い出(おもいで): memories, recollections, reminiscence 外出(がいしゅつ): outing, going out 貸し出し(かしだし): lending, loaning 支出(ししゅつ): expenditure, expenses 出勤(しゅっきん): going to work, at work 出身(しゅっしん): person´s place of origin, institution from which one graduated, director in charge of employee relations 出張(しゅっちょう): official tour, business trip 出版(しゅっぱん): publication 出合い(であい): an encounter 出会い(であい): meeting, rendezvous, encounter 提出(ていしゅつ): presentation, submission, filing 出入り(でいり): in and out, coming and going, free association, income and expenditure, debits and credit 出掛ける(でかける): depart, set out, start, be going out 出来上がり(できあがり): finish, completion, ready, made for, cut out 出来上がる(できあがる): be finished, be ready, by definition, be very drunk 出来事(できごと): incident, affair, happening, event 出来るだけ(できるだけ): if at all possible 出迎え(でむかえ): meeting, reception 出迎える(でむかえる): to meet, to greet 飛び出す(とびだす): jump out, rush out, fly out, appear suddenly, protrude, project 取り出す(とりだす): take out, produce, pick out 引出す(ひきだす): pull out, take out, draw out, withdraw 日の出(ひので): sunrise 見出し(みだし): heading, caption, subtitle, index 呼び出す(よびだす): summon, call (e.g. via telephone) 思い出す(おもいだす): recall, remember 出席(しゅっせき): attend 出発(しゅっぱつ): depart 引き出し(ひきだし): drawer 輸出(ゆしゅつ): export 出す(だす): take out, put out, send 出かける(でかける): depart, go out (e.g. on an excursion or outing), set out, start 出口(でぐち): exit, gateway, way out, outlet, leak, vent 出る(でる): appear, come forth, leave Kunyomi: で.る、-で、だ.す、-だ.す、い.でる、い.だす Onyomi: シュツ、スイ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 出入 (しゅつにゅう), 出現 (しゅつげん), 提出 (ていしゅつ), 出す (だ.す), 出る (で.る)
mountain Details Story Dictionary 山 mountain Heisig's Note the clearer outline of a triangular mountain here. Koohii #1 Pictograph, see book. * As a primitive this element appears equally as well at the top or bottom of the kanjis (besides appearing to the left). Since a mountain often brings to mind towering peaks, I will consider it implied that the element is placed at the top of the kanji. When this primitive appears at the bottom, I will arrange my story in a way that other elements are said to be at the very top of the mountain (see FRAME 775 for an example). Koohii #2 YOU CAN´T POSSIBLY NEED A MNEMONIC FOR THIS!!!! Primitives mountain 鉱山(こうざん): mine (ore) 山岳(さんがく): mountains 山腹(さんぷく): hillside, mountainside 山脈(さんみゃく): mountain range 不山戯る(ふざける): to romp, to gambol, to frolic, to joke, to make fun of, to flirt 火山(かざん): volcano 山林(さんりん): mountain forest, mountains and forest 登山(とざん): mountain climbing 山(やま): mountain, pile, heap, climax, critical point Kunyomi: やま Onyomi: サン、セン Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 山 (やま)	mountain 山 画数3 830 Details Story Dictionary 山 mountain Heisig's Note the clearer outline of a triangular mountain here. Koohii #1 Pictograph, see book. * As a primitive this element appears equally as well at the top or bottom of the kanjis (besides appearing to the left). Since a mountain often brings to mind towering peaks, I will consider it implied that the element is placed at the top of the kanji. When this primitive appears at the bottom, I will arrange my story in a way that other elements are said to be at the very top of the mountain (see FRAME 775 for an example). Koohii #2 YOU CAN´T POSSIBLY NEED A MNEMONIC FOR THIS!!!! Primitives mountain 鉱山(こうざん): mine (ore) 山岳(さんがく): mountains 山腹(さんぷく): hillside, mountainside 山脈(さんみゃく): mountain range 不山戯る(ふざける): to romp, to gambol, to frolic, to joke, to make fun of, to flirt 火山(かざん): volcano 山林(さんりん): mountain forest, mountains and forest 登山(とざん): mountain climbing 山(やま): mountain, pile, heap, climax, critical point Kunyomi: やま Onyomi: サン、セン Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 山 (やま)
bungling Details Story Dictionary 拙 bungling Heisig's Fingers . . . exit. Koohii #1 With fingers fumbling around trying to get the key in the door so he could exit, the bungling husband woke his wife as he tried to leave for a rendezvous with his mistress. Koohii #2 Horror movie cliche 769: Bungling victim´s fingers fumble & bungle trying to open the exit door. Primitives bungling, finger, fingers, exit Kunyomi: つたな.い Onyomi: セツ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	bungling 拙 画数8 831 Details Story Dictionary 拙 bungling Heisig's Fingers . . . exit. Koohii #1 With fingers fumbling around trying to get the key in the door so he could exit, the bungling husband woke his wife as he tried to leave for a rendezvous with his mistress. Koohii #2 Horror movie cliche 769: Bungling victim´s fingers fumble & bungle trying to open the exit door. Primitives bungling, finger, fingers, exit Kunyomi: つたな.い Onyomi: セツ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
boulder Details Story Dictionary 岩 boulder Heisig's Mountain . . . rock. Koohii #1 A mountain-sized stone is known as a boulder. Koohii #2 Here we see mountain rocks rolling down the mountain, gathering into a single monstrous boulder crushing everything in its path. Think snowball effect, even if it wouldn´t work with rocks. Primitives boulder, mountain, stone, rock 岩石(がんせき): rock 岩(いわ): rock, crag 溶岩(ようがん): lava Kunyomi: いわ Onyomi: ガン Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 岩 (いわ)	boulder 岩 画数8 832 Details Story Dictionary 岩 boulder Heisig's Mountain . . . rock. Koohii #1 A mountain-sized stone is known as a boulder. Koohii #2 Here we see mountain rocks rolling down the mountain, gathering into a single monstrous boulder crushing everything in its path. Think snowball effect, even if it wouldn´t work with rocks. Primitives boulder, mountain, stone, rock 岩石(がんせき): rock 岩(いわ): rock, crag 溶岩(ようがん): lava Kunyomi: いわ Onyomi: ガン Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 岩 (いわ)
"charcoal Details Story Dictionary 炭 charcoal Heisig's Mountain . . . ashes. Koohii #1 Burn enough charcoal and you´ll have a mountain of ash. Koohii #2 You get charcoal from volcano (""fire mountain"", 火山) ashes. Primitives charcoal, mountain, ashes, cliff, fire 炭素(たんそ): carbon (C) 石炭(せきたん): coal 炭鉱(たんこう): coal mine Kunyomi: すみ Onyomi: タン Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 炭 (すみ)"	"charcoal 炭 画数9 833 Details Story Dictionary 炭 charcoal Heisig's Mountain . . . ashes. Koohii #1 Burn enough charcoal and you´ll have a mountain of ash. Koohii #2 You get charcoal from volcano (""fire mountain"", 火山) ashes. Primitives charcoal, mountain, ashes, cliff, fire 炭素(たんそ): carbon (C) 石炭(せきたん): coal 炭鉱(たんこう): coal mine Kunyomi: すみ Onyomi: タン Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 炭 (すみ)"
branch off Details Story Dictionary 岐 branch off Heisig's Mountains . . . branch. Koohii #1 On the left, there are three mountains. The road branches off to each of them. (Note: This kanji is mostly used for branches in the road). Koohii #2 In a lot of Super Nintendo-era RPGs, there are mountain levels to get through. You view them from overhead, so you can see a mazelike path with many branches. Picture your sprite characters at one such fork in the mountain path, as it branches off in two directions. Primitives branch off, mountain, branch, ten, needle, crotch Kunyomi: Onyomi: キ、ギ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	branch off 岐 画数7 834 Details Story Dictionary 岐 branch off Heisig's Mountains . . . branch. Koohii #1 On the left, there are three mountains. The road branches off to each of them. (Note: This kanji is mostly used for branches in the road). Koohii #2 In a lot of Super Nintendo-era RPGs, there are mountain levels to get through. You view them from overhead, so you can see a mazelike path with many branches. Picture your sprite characters at one such fork in the mountain path, as it branches off in two directions. Primitives branch off, mountain, branch, ten, needle, crotch Kunyomi: Onyomi: キ、ギ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"mountain pass Details Story Dictionary 峠 mountain pass Heisig's Mountain . . . above . . . below. Koohii #1 Heisig mentions at kanjiclinic.com that he wishes he´d chosen mountain pass for this keyword as it´s closer to what the word means. If we do this, the kanji makes complete sense because a mountain pass is just below the mountain top. Koohii #2 To the north of Lorien lies the Misty Mountains, and below their towering peaks are the Mines of Moria. The Fellowship of the Ring first tried for the MOUNTAIN PASS that goes above, but were halted by the wizardry of Saruman at Caradhras, and so are forced to take the MOUNTAIN PASS that goes below, through the mountain - a path long feared by Gandalf for the ancient evil that lurks there. Note : the kanji does in fact refer to a ""mountain pass"". Primitives mountain peak, mountain, above, below 峠(とうげ): ridge, (mountain) pass, difficult part Kunyomi: とうげ Onyomi: Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 峠 (とうげ)"	"mountain pass 峠 画数9 835 Details Story Dictionary 峠 mountain pass Heisig's Mountain . . . above . . . below. Koohii #1 Heisig mentions at kanjiclinic.com that he wishes he´d chosen mountain pass for this keyword as it´s closer to what the word means. If we do this, the kanji makes complete sense because a mountain pass is just below the mountain top. Koohii #2 To the north of Lorien lies the Misty Mountains, and below their towering peaks are the Mines of Moria. The Fellowship of the Ring first tried for the MOUNTAIN PASS that goes above, but were halted by the wizardry of Saruman at Caradhras, and so are forced to take the MOUNTAIN PASS that goes below, through the mountain - a path long feared by Gandalf for the ancient evil that lurks there. Note : the kanji does in fact refer to a ""mountain pass"". Primitives mountain peak, mountain, above, below 峠(とうげ): ridge, (mountain) pass, difficult part Kunyomi: とうげ Onyomi: Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 峠 (とうげ)"
crumble Details Story Dictionary 崩 crumble Heisig's Mountain . . . companion. Koohii #1 Sam and Frodo were steadfast companions even as Mount Doom crumbled above them. Koohii #2 September 11. [lol it also has 11 strokes], whoever reported this story is a loser, get alife. This is the best story on the website. Primitives crumble, mountain, companion, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, moon2, month2, flesh2, part of the body2 雪崩(なだれ): avalanche 崩壊(ほうかい): collapse, decay (physics), crumbling, breaking down, caving in 崩す(くずす): destroy, pull down, make change (money) 崩れる(くずれる): collapse, crumble Kunyomi: くず.れる、-くず.れ、くず.す Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 崩す (くず.す), 崩れる (くず.れる)	crumble 崩 画数11 836 Details Story Dictionary 崩 crumble Heisig's Mountain . . . companion. Koohii #1 Sam and Frodo were steadfast companions even as Mount Doom crumbled above them. Koohii #2 September 11. [lol it also has 11 strokes], whoever reported this story is a loser, get alife. This is the best story on the website. Primitives crumble, mountain, companion, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, moon2, month2, flesh2, part of the body2 雪崩(なだれ): avalanche 崩壊(ほうかい): collapse, decay (physics), crumbling, breaking down, caving in 崩す(くずす): destroy, pull down, make change (money) 崩れる(くずれる): collapse, crumble Kunyomi: くず.れる、-くず.れ、くず.す Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 崩す (くず.す), 崩れる (くず.れる)
secrecy Details Story Dictionary 密 secrecy My Story The *mountain* is *surely* hard to see (secrecy) under that giant *crown*. [See {秘} and {必}]. Koohii #1 To maintain secrecy, secret societies invariably have to house themselves in the moutains. Koohii #2 To maintain secrecy, secret societies invariably have to house themselves on top of the moutains. (Slight tweak of chamcham´s story, using fuaburisa´s idea for remembering where to put the mountain primitive.). Primitives secrecy, house, invariably, heart, mountain 過密(かみつ): crowded 厳密(げんみつ): strict, close 精密(せいみつ): precise, exact, detailed, minute, close 密か(ひそか): secret, private, surreptitious 密集(みっしゅう): crowd, close formation, dense 密接(みっせつ): related, connected, close, intimate 密度(みつど): density 秘密(ひみつ): secret, secrecy 密(みつ): mystery Kunyomi: ひそ.か Onyomi: ミツ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	secrecy 密 画数11 837 Details Story Dictionary 密 secrecy My Story The *mountain* is *surely* hard to see (secrecy) under that giant *crown*. [See {秘} and {必}]. Koohii #1 To maintain secrecy, secret societies invariably have to house themselves in the moutains. Koohii #2 To maintain secrecy, secret societies invariably have to house themselves on top of the moutains. (Slight tweak of chamcham´s story, using fuaburisa´s idea for remembering where to put the mountain primitive.). Primitives secrecy, house, invariably, heart, mountain 過密(かみつ): crowded 厳密(げんみつ): strict, close 精密(せいみつ): precise, exact, detailed, minute, close 密か(ひそか): secret, private, surreptitious 密集(みっしゅう): crowd, close formation, dense 密接(みっせつ): related, connected, close, intimate 密度(みつど): density 秘密(ひみつ): secret, secrecy 密(みつ): mystery Kunyomi: ひそ.か Onyomi: ミツ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
honey Details Story Dictionary 蜜 honey Heisig's House . . . invariably . . . insect. Koohii #1 When I think of honey, I think of a bee hive, which is a HOUSE that INVARIABLY has INSECTS. Koohii #2 A house with a lot of honey will invariably attract many insects. Primitives honey, house, invariably, heart, insect 蜂蜜(はちみつ): honey 蜜(みつ): nectar, honey Kunyomi: Onyomi: ミツ、ビツ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	honey 蜜 画数12 838 Details Story Dictionary 蜜 honey Heisig's House . . . invariably . . . insect. Koohii #1 When I think of honey, I think of a bee hive, which is a HOUSE that INVARIABLY has INSECTS. Koohii #2 A house with a lot of honey will invariably attract many insects. Primitives honey, house, invariably, heart, insect 蜂蜜(はちみつ): honey 蜜(みつ): nectar, honey Kunyomi: Onyomi: ミツ、ビツ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
storm Details Story Dictionary 嵐 storm Heisig's Mountain . . . winds. Koohii #1 Storm is a full-blown wind that rips the mountains off the ground (you see one flying here). Koohii #2 Winds are gathering at the base of the mountain (note the hint to primitive placement), going up, and turning into a huge mountain storm. Primitives storm, mountain, wind, gnats, drop, insect 嵐(あらし): storm Kunyomi: あらし Onyomi: ラン Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 嵐 (あらし)	storm 嵐 画数12 839 Details Story Dictionary 嵐 storm Heisig's Mountain . . . winds. Koohii #1 Storm is a full-blown wind that rips the mountains off the ground (you see one flying here). Koohii #2 Winds are gathering at the base of the mountain (note the hint to primitive placement), going up, and turning into a huge mountain storm. Primitives storm, mountain, wind, gnats, drop, insect 嵐(あらし): storm Kunyomi: あらし Onyomi: ラン Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 嵐 (あらし)
promontory Details Story Dictionary 崎 promontory Heisig's Mountain . . . strange. Hint: you might save yourself the trouble of a story here simply by recalling the kanji for cape (Frame 164) and toying around with the differing images suggested by the key words promontory and cape. Koohii #1 This is “Cape Strange” from FRAME 153, only with mountain in place of soil. Interestingly, there is also 碕 which is made of the primitives stone and strange. The three kanjis 碕, 埼 and 崎 all have the same meanings and pronunciations. They have very little uses other than names, for which promontory is the clear winner with over 2300 uses in place and people names, while the other two kanjis account for less than 200 names. Koohii #2 A promontory is a small, strange mountain that juts out into the sea. Primitives promontory, mountain, strange, large, St. Bernard, can, street, nail, spike, mouth Kunyomi: さき、さい、みさき Onyomi: キ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 崎 (さき)	promontory 崎 画数11 840 Details Story Dictionary 崎 promontory Heisig's Mountain . . . strange. Hint: you might save yourself the trouble of a story here simply by recalling the kanji for cape (Frame 164) and toying around with the differing images suggested by the key words promontory and cape. Koohii #1 This is “Cape Strange” from FRAME 153, only with mountain in place of soil. Interestingly, there is also 碕 which is made of the primitives stone and strange. The three kanjis 碕, 埼 and 崎 all have the same meanings and pronunciations. They have very little uses other than names, for which promontory is the clear winner with over 2300 uses in place and people names, while the other two kanjis account for less than 200 names. Koohii #2 A promontory is a small, strange mountain that juts out into the sea. Primitives promontory, mountain, strange, large, St. Bernard, can, street, nail, spike, mouth Kunyomi: さき、さい、みさき Onyomi: キ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 崎 (さき)
"bluffs Details Story Dictionary 崖 bluffs Heisig's Mountain . . . cliff . . . ivy. Koohii #1 Standing at the base of the bluffs I announce, ""I´m going to climb those ivy-covered cliffs, and then the mountain on top of them."" My friends don´t believe me, ""He bluffs!"" they say. Koohii #2 The ivy-covered cliff we saw on the horizon (#157) ... the sheer beauty of the mountain that overlooks these bluffs is enough to make you want to swim for shore yourself! Primitives bluffs, mountain, cliff, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, soil2, dirt2, ground2 崖(がけ): cliff Kunyomi: がけ、きし、はて Onyomi: ガイ、ゲ、ギ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 崖 (がけ)"	"bluffs 崖 画数11 841 Details Story Dictionary 崖 bluffs Heisig's Mountain . . . cliff . . . ivy. Koohii #1 Standing at the base of the bluffs I announce, ""I´m going to climb those ivy-covered cliffs, and then the mountain on top of them."" My friends don´t believe me, ""He bluffs!"" they say. Koohii #2 The ivy-covered cliff we saw on the horizon (#157) ... the sheer beauty of the mountain that overlooks these bluffs is enough to make you want to swim for shore yourself! Primitives bluffs, mountain, cliff, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, soil2, dirt2, ground2 崖(がけ): cliff Kunyomi: がけ、きし、はて Onyomi: ガイ、ゲ、ギ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 崖 (がけ)"
"enter Details Story Dictionary 入 enter Heisig's This character is meant to be a picture of someone walking leftwards, putting one leg forward in order to enter someplace. Since the ""in"" side of a character is the left, it should be easy to remember the writing of this character. * As a primitive, the meaning of the key word is expanded to include: to go in, to put in, to come in, and the like. It generally appears atop its relative primitive, where, unlike the element for umbrella, the two strokes do not touch each other, making it virtually the same as the kanji for eight. When it appears in any other position, however, it retains its original form. Koohii #1 Pictograph, see book. * As a primitive, using the image of going through a door, even one that stands alone with the frame and no wall around, helps flesh out the primitive “enter”. Koohii #2 Person enters stage left…　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ニュウ　入院　にゅういん(admittance into a hospital). Primitives enter 入口(いりくち): entrance, gate, approach, mouth 入る(いる): to get in, to go in, to come in, to flow into, to set, to set in 受け入れ(うけいれ): receiving, acceptance 受け入れる(うけいれる): to accept, to receive 恐れ入る(おそれいる): to be filled with awe, to feel small, to be amazed, to be surprised, to be disconcerted, to be sorry, to be grateful, to be defeated, to confess guilt 介入(かいにゅう): intervention 加入(かにゅう): becoming a member, joining, entry, admission, subscription, affiliation, adherence, signing 購入(こうにゅう): purchase, buy 仕入れる(しいれる): to lay in stock, to replenish stock, to procure 新入生(しんにゅうせい): freshman, first-year student 潜入(せんにゅう): infiltration, sneaking in 出入り口(でいりぐち): exit and entrance 投入(とうにゅう): throw, investment, making (an electrical circuit) 導入(どうにゅう): introduction, bringing in, leading in 入手(にゅうしゅ): obtaining, coming to hand 入賞(にゅうしょう): winning a prize or place (in a contest) 入浴(にゅうよく): bathe, bathing 納入(のうにゅう): payment, supply 申し入れる(もうしいれる): to propose, to suggest 入れ物(いれもの): container, case, receptacle 気に入る(きにいる): be pleased with, to suit 記入(きにゅう): entry, filling in of forms 四捨五入(ししゃごにゅう): rounding up (especially fractions) 収入(しゅうにゅう): income, receipts, revenue 侵入(しんにゅう): penetration, invasion, raid, aggression, trespass 出入り(でいり): in and out, coming and going, free association, income and expenditure, debits and credit 手入れ(ていれ): repairs, maintenance 取り入れる(とりいれる): harvest, take in, adopt 入社(にゅうしゃ): entry to a company 入場(にゅうじょう): entrance, admission, entering 日の入り(ひのいり): sunset 輸入(ゆにゅう): importation, import, introduction 押し入れ(おしいれ): closet 入院(にゅういん): enter hospital 入学(にゅうがく): enter a school 入口(いりぐち): entrance, gate, approach, mouth 入れる(いれる): put in, take in, bring in, let in, admit, introduce, usher in, insert, employ, listen to, tolerate, comprehend, include, pay (interest), cast (votes) 入る(はいる): enter, break into, join, enroll, contain, hold, accommodate, have (an income of) Kunyomi: い.る、-い.る、-い.り、い.れる、-い.れ、はい.る Onyomi: ニュウ、ジュ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 入る (い.る), 入れる (い.れる), 入る (はい.る)"	"enter 入 画数2 842 Details Story Dictionary 入 enter Heisig's This character is meant to be a picture of someone walking leftwards, putting one leg forward in order to enter someplace. Since the ""in"" side of a character is the left, it should be easy to remember the writing of this character. * As a primitive, the meaning of the key word is expanded to include: to go in, to put in, to come in, and the like. It generally appears atop its relative primitive, where, unlike the element for umbrella, the two strokes do not touch each other, making it virtually the same as the kanji for eight. When it appears in any other position, however, it retains its original form. Koohii #1 Pictograph, see book. * As a primitive, using the image of going through a door, even one that stands alone with the frame and no wall around, helps flesh out the primitive “enter”. Koohii #2 Person enters stage left…　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ニュウ　入院　にゅういん(admittance into a hospital). Primitives enter 入口(いりくち): entrance, gate, approach, mouth 入る(いる): to get in, to go in, to come in, to flow into, to set, to set in 受け入れ(うけいれ): receiving, acceptance 受け入れる(うけいれる): to accept, to receive 恐れ入る(おそれいる): to be filled with awe, to feel small, to be amazed, to be surprised, to be disconcerted, to be sorry, to be grateful, to be defeated, to confess guilt 介入(かいにゅう): intervention 加入(かにゅう): becoming a member, joining, entry, admission, subscription, affiliation, adherence, signing 購入(こうにゅう): purchase, buy 仕入れる(しいれる): to lay in stock, to replenish stock, to procure 新入生(しんにゅうせい): freshman, first-year student 潜入(せんにゅう): infiltration, sneaking in 出入り口(でいりぐち): exit and entrance 投入(とうにゅう): throw, investment, making (an electrical circuit) 導入(どうにゅう): introduction, bringing in, leading in 入手(にゅうしゅ): obtaining, coming to hand 入賞(にゅうしょう): winning a prize or place (in a contest) 入浴(にゅうよく): bathe, bathing 納入(のうにゅう): payment, supply 申し入れる(もうしいれる): to propose, to suggest 入れ物(いれもの): container, case, receptacle 気に入る(きにいる): be pleased with, to suit 記入(きにゅう): entry, filling in of forms 四捨五入(ししゃごにゅう): rounding up (especially fractions) 収入(しゅうにゅう): income, receipts, revenue 侵入(しんにゅう): penetration, invasion, raid, aggression, trespass 出入り(でいり): in and out, coming and going, free association, income and expenditure, debits and credit 手入れ(ていれ): repairs, maintenance 取り入れる(とりいれる): harvest, take in, adopt 入社(にゅうしゃ): entry to a company 入場(にゅうじょう): entrance, admission, entering 日の入り(ひのいり): sunset 輸入(ゆにゅう): importation, import, introduction 押し入れ(おしいれ): closet 入院(にゅういん): enter hospital 入学(にゅうがく): enter a school 入口(いりぐち): entrance, gate, approach, mouth 入れる(いれる): put in, take in, bring in, let in, admit, introduce, usher in, insert, employ, listen to, tolerate, comprehend, include, pay (interest), cast (votes) 入る(はいる): enter, break into, join, enroll, contain, hold, accommodate, have (an income of) Kunyomi: い.る、-い.る、-い.り、い.れる、-い.れ、はい.る Onyomi: ニュウ、ジュ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 入る (い.る), 入れる (い.れる), 入る (はい.る)"
crowded Details Story Dictionary 込 crowded Heisig's Enter . . . road. Koohii #1 During a traffic jam it is impossible to get your car to enter the roadway as it is crowded with cars. Think of a grid lock so bad cars are litterally scraping up against each other like people on a Japanese train during rush hour. Koohii #2 Everybody tries to enter the road during rush hour. That´s why it´s so crowded. Primitives crowded, enter, road 意気込む(いきごむ): to be enthusiastic about 打ち込む(うちこむ): to drive in (e.g. nail stake), to devote oneself to, to shoot into, to smash, to throw into, to cast into 埋め込む(うめこむ): to bury 追い込む(おいこむ): to herd, to corner, to drive 押し込む(おしこむ): to push into, to crowd into 落ち込む(おちこむ): to fall into, to feel down (sad) 組み込む(くみこむ): to insert, to include, to cut in (printing) 込める(こめる): to include, to put into 飲み込む(のみこむ): to gulp down, to swallow deeply, to understand, to take in, to catch on to, to learn, to digest 乗り込む(のりこむ): to board, to embark on, to get into (a car), to ship (passengers), to man (a ship), to help (someone) into, to march into, to enter 放り込む(ほうりこむ): to throw into 見込み(みこみ): hope, prospects, expectation 申し込み(もうしこみ): application, entry, request, subscription, offer, proposal, overture, challenge 割り込む(わりこむ): to cut in, to thrust oneself into, to wedge oneself in, to muscle in on, to interrupt, to disturb 思い込む(おもいこむ): be under impression that, be convinced that, imagine that, set one´s heart on, be bent on 突っ込む(つっこむ): thrust something into something, plunge into, go into deeply, meddle, interfere 溶け込む(とけこむ): melt into 飛び込む(とびこむ): jump in, leap in, plunge into, dive 払い込む(はらいこむ): deposit, pay in 引っ込む(ひっこむ): draw back, sink, cave in 人込み(ひとごみ): crowd of people 申し込む(もうしこむ): apply for, propose, offer, challenge, request 込む(こむ): be crowded Kunyomi: こ.み、 -こ.み、 -こ.む、 こ.む、 こ.める Onyomi: Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 込む (こ.む), 込める (こ.める)	crowded 込 画数5 843 Details Story Dictionary 込 crowded Heisig's Enter . . . road. Koohii #1 During a traffic jam it is impossible to get your car to enter the roadway as it is crowded with cars. Think of a grid lock so bad cars are litterally scraping up against each other like people on a Japanese train during rush hour. Koohii #2 Everybody tries to enter the road during rush hour. That´s why it´s so crowded. Primitives crowded, enter, road 意気込む(いきごむ): to be enthusiastic about 打ち込む(うちこむ): to drive in (e.g. nail stake), to devote oneself to, to shoot into, to smash, to throw into, to cast into 埋め込む(うめこむ): to bury 追い込む(おいこむ): to herd, to corner, to drive 押し込む(おしこむ): to push into, to crowd into 落ち込む(おちこむ): to fall into, to feel down (sad) 組み込む(くみこむ): to insert, to include, to cut in (printing) 込める(こめる): to include, to put into 飲み込む(のみこむ): to gulp down, to swallow deeply, to understand, to take in, to catch on to, to learn, to digest 乗り込む(のりこむ): to board, to embark on, to get into (a car), to ship (passengers), to man (a ship), to help (someone) into, to march into, to enter 放り込む(ほうりこむ): to throw into 見込み(みこみ): hope, prospects, expectation 申し込み(もうしこみ): application, entry, request, subscription, offer, proposal, overture, challenge 割り込む(わりこむ): to cut in, to thrust oneself into, to wedge oneself in, to muscle in on, to interrupt, to disturb 思い込む(おもいこむ): be under impression that, be convinced that, imagine that, set one´s heart on, be bent on 突っ込む(つっこむ): thrust something into something, plunge into, go into deeply, meddle, interfere 溶け込む(とけこむ): melt into 飛び込む(とびこむ): jump in, leap in, plunge into, dive 払い込む(はらいこむ): deposit, pay in 引っ込む(ひっこむ): draw back, sink, cave in 人込み(ひとごみ): crowd of people 申し込む(もうしこむ): apply for, propose, offer, challenge, request 込む(こむ): be crowded Kunyomi: こ.み、 -こ.み、 -こ.む、 こ.む、 こ.める Onyomi: Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 込む (こ.む), 込める (こ.める)
"part Details Story Dictionary 分 part Heisig's Go in . . . dagger. Koohii #1 When something is entered by a dagger, it ends up being cut in several parts. Koohii #2 (This kanji also has the meanings of ""understand"" and ""minute""). It´s important to understand that were you to enter an hour with a dagger and cut it into parts, those parts would be minutes. Primitives part, eight, sword, dagger 一部分(いちぶぶん): a part 十分(じっぷん): 10 minutes 処分(しょぶん): disposal, dealing, punishment 随分(ずいぶん): pretty much, very much 多分(たぶん): perhaps, probably 手分け(てわけ): division of labour 取り分(とりわけ): especially, above all 配分(はいぶん): distribution, allotment 引き分け(ひきわけ): a draw (in competition), tie game 分(ふん): minute 分業(ぶんぎょう): division of labor, specialization, assembly-line production 分散(ぶんさん): dispersion, decentralization, variance (statistics) 分子(ぶんし): numerator, molecule 分担(ぶんたん): apportionment, sharing 分配(ぶんぱい): division, sharing 分母(ぶんぼ): denominator 分離(ぶんり): separation, detachment, segregation, isolation 分裂(ぶんれつ): split, division, break up 申し分(もうしぶん): objection, shortcomings 分かる(わかる): to be understood 幾分(いくぶん): somewhat 区分(くぶん): division, section, compartment, demarcation, (traffic) lane, classification, sorting 水分(すいぶん): moisture 成分(せいぶん): ingredient, component, composition 大分(だいぶ): very, many, a lot 大部分(だいぶぶん): most part, greater part, majority 大分(だいぶん): considerably, greatly, a lot 等分(とうぶん): division into equal parts 何分(なにぶん): anyway, please 引分け(ひきわけ): tie game, draw 分(ぶ): rate, part, percentage, one percent, thickness, odds, chance of winning, one-hundredth of a shaku, one-quarter of a ryou 分野(ぶんや): field, sphere, realm, division, branch 部分(ぶぶん): portion, section, part 分(ぶん): part, segment, share, ration, rate, degree, one´s lot, one´s status, relation, duty, kind, lot, in proportion to, just as much as 分解(ぶんかい): analysis, disassembly 分数(ぶんすう): (mathematics) fraction 分析(ぶんせき): analysis 分布(ぶんぷ): distribution 分量(ぶんりょう): amount, quantity 分類(ぶんるい): classification 身分(みぶん): social position, social status 養分(ようぶん): nourishment, nutrient 余分(よぶん): extra, excess, surplus 分かれる(わかれる): branch off, diverge from, fork, split, dispense, scatter, divide into 分ける(わける): divide, separate, make distinctions, differentiate (between) 気分(きぶん): mood 十分(じゅうぶん): enough 自分(じぶん): myself, oneself 半分(はんぶん): half 分る(わかる): be understood Kunyomi: わ.ける、わ.け、わ.かれる、わ.かる、わ.かつ Onyomi: ブン、フン、ブ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: Compounds: 分解 (ぶんかい), 自分 (じぶん), 水分 (すいぶん), 分別 (ふんべつ), 分銅 (ふんどう), 三十分 (さんじゅうふん), 分かつ (わ.かつ), 分かる (わ.かる), 分かれる (わ.かれる), 分ける (わ.ける)"	"part 分 画数4 844 Details Story Dictionary 分 part Heisig's Go in . . . dagger. Koohii #1 When something is entered by a dagger, it ends up being cut in several parts. Koohii #2 (This kanji also has the meanings of ""understand"" and ""minute""). It´s important to understand that were you to enter an hour with a dagger and cut it into parts, those parts would be minutes. Primitives part, eight, sword, dagger 一部分(いちぶぶん): a part 十分(じっぷん): 10 minutes 処分(しょぶん): disposal, dealing, punishment 随分(ずいぶん): pretty much, very much 多分(たぶん): perhaps, probably 手分け(てわけ): division of labour 取り分(とりわけ): especially, above all 配分(はいぶん): distribution, allotment 引き分け(ひきわけ): a draw (in competition), tie game 分(ふん): minute 分業(ぶんぎょう): division of labor, specialization, assembly-line production 分散(ぶんさん): dispersion, decentralization, variance (statistics) 分子(ぶんし): numerator, molecule 分担(ぶんたん): apportionment, sharing 分配(ぶんぱい): division, sharing 分母(ぶんぼ): denominator 分離(ぶんり): separation, detachment, segregation, isolation 分裂(ぶんれつ): split, division, break up 申し分(もうしぶん): objection, shortcomings 分かる(わかる): to be understood 幾分(いくぶん): somewhat 区分(くぶん): division, section, compartment, demarcation, (traffic) lane, classification, sorting 水分(すいぶん): moisture 成分(せいぶん): ingredient, component, composition 大分(だいぶ): very, many, a lot 大部分(だいぶぶん): most part, greater part, majority 大分(だいぶん): considerably, greatly, a lot 等分(とうぶん): division into equal parts 何分(なにぶん): anyway, please 引分け(ひきわけ): tie game, draw 分(ぶ): rate, part, percentage, one percent, thickness, odds, chance of winning, one-hundredth of a shaku, one-quarter of a ryou 分野(ぶんや): field, sphere, realm, division, branch 部分(ぶぶん): portion, section, part 分(ぶん): part, segment, share, ration, rate, degree, one´s lot, one´s status, relation, duty, kind, lot, in proportion to, just as much as 分解(ぶんかい): analysis, disassembly 分数(ぶんすう): (mathematics) fraction 分析(ぶんせき): analysis 分布(ぶんぷ): distribution 分量(ぶんりょう): amount, quantity 分類(ぶんるい): classification 身分(みぶん): social position, social status 養分(ようぶん): nourishment, nutrient 余分(よぶん): extra, excess, surplus 分かれる(わかれる): branch off, diverge from, fork, split, dispense, scatter, divide into 分ける(わける): divide, separate, make distinctions, differentiate (between) 気分(きぶん): mood 十分(じゅうぶん): enough 自分(じぶん): myself, oneself 半分(はんぶん): half 分る(わかる): be understood Kunyomi: わ.ける、わ.け、わ.かれる、わ.かる、わ.かつ Onyomi: ブン、フン、ブ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: Compounds: 分解 (ぶんかい), 自分 (じぶん), 水分 (すいぶん), 分別 (ふんべつ), 分銅 (ふんどう), 三十分 (さんじゅうふん), 分かつ (わ.かつ), 分かる (わ.かる), 分かれる (わ.かれる), 分ける (わ.ける)"
poverty Details Story Dictionary 貧 poverty Heisig's Part . . . shells/money. Koohii #1 In the case of true poverty, not having money is only part of the problem. There are other components as well, like lack of education, class structuring, etc., but that doesn´t really matter. Just remember that the money is only part of it, not the whole. Koohii #2 Parting with your money will lead to poverty. Primitives poverty, part, eight, sword, dagger, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 貧困(ひんこん): poverty, lack 貧弱(ひんじゃく): poor, meagre, insubstantial 貧乏(びんぼう): poverty, destitute, poor 貧しい(まずしい): poor, needy Kunyomi: まず.しい Onyomi: ヒン、ビン Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 貧富 (ひんぷ), 貧弱 (ひんじゃく), 清貧 (せいひん), 貧しい (まず.しい)	poverty 貧 画数11 845 Details Story Dictionary 貧 poverty Heisig's Part . . . shells/money. Koohii #1 In the case of true poverty, not having money is only part of the problem. There are other components as well, like lack of education, class structuring, etc., but that doesn´t really matter. Just remember that the money is only part of it, not the whole. Koohii #2 Parting with your money will lead to poverty. Primitives poverty, part, eight, sword, dagger, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 貧困(ひんこん): poverty, lack 貧弱(ひんじゃく): poor, meagre, insubstantial 貧乏(びんぼう): poverty, destitute, poor 貧しい(まずしい): poor, needy Kunyomi: まず.しい Onyomi: ヒン、ビン Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 貧富 (ひんぷ), 貧弱 (ひんじゃく), 清貧 (せいひん), 貧しい (まず.しい)
partition Details Story Dictionary 頒 partition Heisig's Part . . . head. Koohii #1 The PART of my HEAD where I remember the KANJI is in the kanji PARTITION. Koohii #2 The last time I tried to partition a hard drive under Linux, I got a severe migraine that parted my head. Primitives partition, part, eight, sword, dagger, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: わか.つ Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	partition 頒 画数13 846 Details Story Dictionary 頒 partition Heisig's Part . . . head. Koohii #1 The PART of my HEAD where I remember the KANJI is in the kanji PARTITION. Koohii #2 The last time I tried to partition a hard drive under Linux, I got a severe migraine that parted my head. Primitives partition, part, eight, sword, dagger, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: わか.つ Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
public Details Story Dictionary 公 public Heisig's Come in . . . elbows. Use the key word in its adjectival sense, not as a noun. Koohii #1 I always open the doors to the public restrooms with my elbows because I don´t want to touch the door with my hands. Koohii #2 I always enter the doors to the public restrooms with my elbows because I don´t want to touch the door with my hands. Primitives public, eight, elbow 公(おおやけ): official, public, formal, open, governmental 公演(こうえん): public performance 公開(こうかい): presenting to the public 公然(こうぜん): open (e.g. secret), public, official 公団(こうだん): public corporation 公認(こうにん): official recognition, authorization, licence, accreditation 公募(こうぼ): public appeal, public contribution 公務(こうむ): official business, public business 公用(こうよう): government business, public use, public expense 公立(こうりつ): public (institution) 主人公(しゅじんこう): protagonist, main character, hero(ine) (of a story), head of household 公害(こうがい): public nuisance, pollution 公共(こうきょう): public, community, public service, society, communal 公式(こうしき): formula, formality, official 公衆(こうしゅう): the public 公正(こうせい): justice, fairness, impartiality 公表(こうひょう): official announcement, proclamation 公平(こうへい): fairness, impartial, justice 公務員(こうむいん): public servant 公園(こうえん): (public) park Kunyomi: おおやけ Onyomi: コウ、ク Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 公 (おおやけ)	public 公 画数4 847 Details Story Dictionary 公 public Heisig's Come in . . . elbows. Use the key word in its adjectival sense, not as a noun. Koohii #1 I always open the doors to the public restrooms with my elbows because I don´t want to touch the door with my hands. Koohii #2 I always enter the doors to the public restrooms with my elbows because I don´t want to touch the door with my hands. Primitives public, eight, elbow 公(おおやけ): official, public, formal, open, governmental 公演(こうえん): public performance 公開(こうかい): presenting to the public 公然(こうぜん): open (e.g. secret), public, official 公団(こうだん): public corporation 公認(こうにん): official recognition, authorization, licence, accreditation 公募(こうぼ): public appeal, public contribution 公務(こうむ): official business, public business 公用(こうよう): government business, public use, public expense 公立(こうりつ): public (institution) 主人公(しゅじんこう): protagonist, main character, hero(ine) (of a story), head of household 公害(こうがい): public nuisance, pollution 公共(こうきょう): public, community, public service, society, communal 公式(こうしき): formula, formality, official 公衆(こうしゅう): the public 公正(こうせい): justice, fairness, impartiality 公表(こうひょう): official announcement, proclamation 公平(こうへい): fairness, impartial, justice 公務員(こうむいん): public servant 公園(こうえん): (public) park Kunyomi: おおやけ Onyomi: コウ、ク Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 公 (おおやけ)
"pine tree Details Story Dictionary 松 pine tree Heisig's Tree . . . public. Koohii #1 Following up with the ""entering public restrooms"" story for the right-hand primitive: public restrooms always reek of pine tree scented disinfectant. Koohii #2 A pine tree is a public tree: they are frequently planted in public squares, in commemoration of the respect Conficius held for them. Primitives pine tree, tree, wood, public, eight, elbows 松(まつ): pine tree, highest (of a three-tier ranking system) Kunyomi: まつ Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 松 (まつ)"	"pine tree 松 画数8 848 Details Story Dictionary 松 pine tree Heisig's Tree . . . public. Koohii #1 Following up with the ""entering public restrooms"" story for the right-hand primitive: public restrooms always reek of pine tree scented disinfectant. Koohii #2 A pine tree is a public tree: they are frequently planted in public squares, in commemoration of the respect Conficius held for them. Primitives pine tree, tree, wood, public, eight, elbows 松(まつ): pine tree, highest (of a three-tier ranking system) Kunyomi: まつ Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 松 (まつ)"
venerable old man Details Story Dictionary 翁 venerable old man Heisig's Public . . . feathers. Koohii #1 The venerable old man is the public figure head of the Native American Village, answering all questions and solving all problems. The higher in rank you get in this tribe, the more feathers decorate you. Imagine this old man covered in beautiful feathers. Koohii #2 The venerable old man is using the public restroom in the park where he feeds the pigeons. But, alas, there is no toilet paper! So, he´s caught a pigeon and is using it to wipe his bottom. (note the feathers on the bottom of the kanji, this helps remember placement). Can you see the feathers flying everywhere? Primitives venerable old man, public, eight, elbows, feathers, wings Kunyomi: おきな Onyomi: オウ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	venerable old man 翁 画数10 849 Details Story Dictionary 翁 venerable old man Heisig's Public . . . feathers. Koohii #1 The venerable old man is the public figure head of the Native American Village, answering all questions and solving all problems. The higher in rank you get in this tribe, the more feathers decorate you. Imagine this old man covered in beautiful feathers. Koohii #2 The venerable old man is using the public restroom in the park where he feeds the pigeons. But, alas, there is no toilet paper! So, he´s caught a pigeon and is using it to wipe his bottom. (note the feathers on the bottom of the kanji, this helps remember placement). Can you see the feathers flying everywhere? Primitives venerable old man, public, eight, elbows, feathers, wings Kunyomi: おきな Onyomi: オウ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
sue Details Story Dictionary 訟 sue Heisig's Words . . . public. Koohii #1 Take care what words you say in public lest you be sued. Koohii #2 [+radical_tyro] Socrates was giving a speech in public. Things were going rather well, until his robe opened a bit and people saw his, well, not-public area. He was promptly sued for public indecency. Certain things shouldn´t be made public in public, you know? Primitives sue, say, words, keitai, mouth, public, eight, elbows 訴訟(そしょう): litigation, lawsuit Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	sue 訟 画数11 850 Details Story Dictionary 訟 sue Heisig's Words . . . public. Koohii #1 Take care what words you say in public lest you be sued. Koohii #2 [+radical_tyro] Socrates was giving a speech in public. Things were going rather well, until his robe opened a bit and people saw his, well, not-public area. He was promptly sued for public indecency. Certain things shouldn´t be made public in public, you know? Primitives sue, say, words, keitai, mouth, public, eight, elbows 訴訟(そしょう): litigation, lawsuit Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
valley Details Story Dictionary 谷 valley Heisig's Go in . . . an umbrella . . . a mouth. Because of space restrictions, the element for go in is shortened in this character. If you stand on your head and look at this kanji, the image of a valley stands out more clearly: the mouth of the river whose water flows down at the intersection of the two mountains, with the final two strokes adding the element of perspective. Now get back on your feet again and see if the image still remains clear. If not, then return to the primitives and make a story in the usual way. Koohii #1 This could be seen as a very accurate pictograph of another type of valley: a valley mouth open under the umbrella of inner labia, with the outer labia parted above. There are even more connections to be made among the primitive keywords and the visuals, but i will enter no further... Koohii #2 Think of the classic anime 風の谷のナウシカ (Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind). We see Nausicaa entering the valley mouth gliding on an umbrella. Primitives valley, eight, umbrella, mouth 谷(たに): valley Kunyomi: たに、きわ.まる Onyomi: コク Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 谷 (たに)	valley 谷 画数7 851 Details Story Dictionary 谷 valley Heisig's Go in . . . an umbrella . . . a mouth. Because of space restrictions, the element for go in is shortened in this character. If you stand on your head and look at this kanji, the image of a valley stands out more clearly: the mouth of the river whose water flows down at the intersection of the two mountains, with the final two strokes adding the element of perspective. Now get back on your feet again and see if the image still remains clear. If not, then return to the primitives and make a story in the usual way. Koohii #1 This could be seen as a very accurate pictograph of another type of valley: a valley mouth open under the umbrella of inner labia, with the outer labia parted above. There are even more connections to be made among the primitive keywords and the visuals, but i will enter no further... Koohii #2 Think of the classic anime 風の谷のナウシカ (Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind). We see Nausicaa entering the valley mouth gliding on an umbrella. Primitives valley, eight, umbrella, mouth 谷(たに): valley Kunyomi: たに、きわ.まる Onyomi: コク Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 谷 (たに)
bathe Details Story Dictionary 浴 bathe Heisig's Water . . . valley. Koohii #1 This story is quite lascivious, sorry... Now, imagine you are at a 混浴　（こんよく） [two kanjis we now know] Onsen (温泉), and you are watching a woman bathe. Just picture the water dripping down her cleavage (that valley in between her breasts). Note: cleavage in Japanese is 谷間. Koohii #2 The mountain man uses the water from the valley to bathe. Primitives bathe, water, water droplets, water pistol, valley, eight, umbrella, mouth 浴びる(あびる): bathe, take a shower, bask in the sun 入浴(にゅうよく): bathe, bathing 浴室(よくしつ): bathroom, bath 海水浴(かいすいよく): sea bathing, seawater bath 浴衣(ゆかた): bathrobe, informal summer kimono Kunyomi: あ.びる、あ.びせる Onyomi: ヨク Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 浴びせる (あ.びせる), 浴びる (あ.びる)	bathe 浴 画数10 852 Details Story Dictionary 浴 bathe Heisig's Water . . . valley. Koohii #1 This story is quite lascivious, sorry... Now, imagine you are at a 混浴　（こんよく） [two kanjis we now know] Onsen (温泉), and you are watching a woman bathe. Just picture the water dripping down her cleavage (that valley in between her breasts). Note: cleavage in Japanese is 谷間. Koohii #2 The mountain man uses the water from the valley to bathe. Primitives bathe, water, water droplets, water pistol, valley, eight, umbrella, mouth 浴びる(あびる): bathe, take a shower, bask in the sun 入浴(にゅうよく): bathe, bathing 浴室(よくしつ): bathroom, bath 海水浴(かいすいよく): sea bathing, seawater bath 浴衣(ゆかた): bathrobe, informal summer kimono Kunyomi: あ.びる、あ.びせる Onyomi: ヨク Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 浴びせる (あ.びせる), 浴びる (あ.びる)
"contain Details Story Dictionary 容 contain My Story My house is so big, it contains an entire valley! Koohii #1 Imagine a house big enough to contain an entire valley. might want to live there. And now imagine cleaning it. . . . Maybe not . . . Koohii #2 Biodome. Primitives contain, house, valley, eight, umbrella, mouth 寛容(かんよう): forbearance, tolerance, generosity 許容(きょよう): permission, pardon 収容(しゅうよう): accommodation, reception, seating, housing, custody, admission, entering (in a dictionary) 容易い(たやすい): easy, simple, light 形容詞(けいようし): ""true"" adjective 形容動詞(けいようどうし): adjectival noun, quasi-adjective 内容(ないよう): subject, contents, matter, substance, detail, import 美容(びよう): beauty of figure or form 容易(ようい): easy, simple, plain 容器(ようき): container, vessel 容積(ようせき): capacity, volume Kunyomi: い.れる Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"contain 容 画数10 853 Details Story Dictionary 容 contain My Story My house is so big, it contains an entire valley! Koohii #1 Imagine a house big enough to contain an entire valley. might want to live there. And now imagine cleaning it. . . . Maybe not . . . Koohii #2 Biodome. Primitives contain, house, valley, eight, umbrella, mouth 寛容(かんよう): forbearance, tolerance, generosity 許容(きょよう): permission, pardon 収容(しゅうよう): accommodation, reception, seating, housing, custody, admission, entering (in a dictionary) 容易い(たやすい): easy, simple, light 形容詞(けいようし): ""true"" adjective 形容動詞(けいようどうし): adjectival noun, quasi-adjective 内容(ないよう): subject, contents, matter, substance, detail, import 美容(びよう): beauty of figure or form 容易(ようい): easy, simple, plain 容器(ようき): container, vessel 容積(ようせき): capacity, volume Kunyomi: い.れる Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
melt Details Story Dictionary 溶 melt Heisig's Water . . . contain. Koohii #1 Think of what happens when the snow on top of the mountains melts: it turns into water and flows down onto the rooftops of all the houses in the valley below. Koohii #2 [melt; dissolve; thaw] An ice cube is melting, loosing the water it contained. Primitives melt, water, water droplets, water pistol, contents, contain, house, valley, animal legs, eight, umbrella, mouth 溶液(ようえき): solution (liquid) 溶かす(とかす): melt, dissolve 溶く(とく): dissolve (e.g. paint) 溶け込む(とけこむ): melt into 溶ける(とける): melt, thaw, fuse, dissolve 溶岩(ようがん): lava Kunyomi: と.ける、と.かす、と.く Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 溶かす (と.かす), 溶く (と.く), 溶ける (と.ける)	melt 溶 画数13 854 Details Story Dictionary 溶 melt Heisig's Water . . . contain. Koohii #1 Think of what happens when the snow on top of the mountains melts: it turns into water and flows down onto the rooftops of all the houses in the valley below. Koohii #2 [melt; dissolve; thaw] An ice cube is melting, loosing the water it contained. Primitives melt, water, water droplets, water pistol, contents, contain, house, valley, animal legs, eight, umbrella, mouth 溶液(ようえき): solution (liquid) 溶かす(とかす): melt, dissolve 溶く(とく): dissolve (e.g. paint) 溶け込む(とけこむ): melt into 溶ける(とける): melt, thaw, fuse, dissolve 溶岩(ようがん): lava Kunyomi: と.ける、と.かす、と.く Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 溶かす (と.かす), 溶く (と.く), 溶ける (と.ける)
longing Details Story Dictionary 欲 longing Heisig's Valley . . . yawn. Be sure to keep the key word distinct from pining (Frame 683). Koohii #1 Guess what? Japanese has dirty words too! (In fact, a lot of them) A sexual story is NOT inappropriate here, as this kanji is very sexual, such as in 性欲; lust. As for a story: the lack of contact with a woman´s valley will leave a man LONGING for love. Koohii #2 The valley has something my life is lacking.... something I´ve been longing for.. peace and quiet. Primitives longing, valley, eight, umbrella, mouth, lack, yawn 意欲(いよく): will, desire, ambition 欲深い(よくふかい): greedy 欲望(よくぼう): desire, appetite 食欲(しょくよく): appetite (for food) 欲張り(よくばり): avarice, covetousness, greed 欲しい(ほしい): wanted, wished for, in need of, desired Kunyomi: ほっ.する、ほ.しい Onyomi: ヨク Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 欲しい (ほ.しい), 欲する (ほっ.する)	longing 欲 画数11 855 Details Story Dictionary 欲 longing Heisig's Valley . . . yawn. Be sure to keep the key word distinct from pining (Frame 683). Koohii #1 Guess what? Japanese has dirty words too! (In fact, a lot of them) A sexual story is NOT inappropriate here, as this kanji is very sexual, such as in 性欲; lust. As for a story: the lack of contact with a woman´s valley will leave a man LONGING for love. Koohii #2 The valley has something my life is lacking.... something I´ve been longing for.. peace and quiet. Primitives longing, valley, eight, umbrella, mouth, lack, yawn 意欲(いよく): will, desire, ambition 欲深い(よくふかい): greedy 欲望(よくぼう): desire, appetite 食欲(しょくよく): appetite (for food) 欲張り(よくばり): avarice, covetousness, greed 欲しい(ほしい): wanted, wished for, in need of, desired Kunyomi: ほっ.する、ほ.しい Onyomi: ヨク Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 欲しい (ほ.しい), 欲する (ほっ.する)
"abundant Details Story Dictionary 裕 abundant Heisig's This character shows the typical cloak of valley folk, which, unlike the tailor-made, high-fashion overcoats of city folk, is loose-fitting and free-form. Hence the key word's meaning of abundant. Koohii #1 Again using the fact that cleavage in Japanese is called ""valley of the chest"": a woman with abundant cleavage tightly wraps up her bosom in a form-fitting cloak, but leaving her valley exposed. Another unforgettable image (thank you, thank you, I´ll be here all week). Koohii #2 Welcome to cloak-valley, the valley where everyone wears cloaks and every shop sells cloaks. Mnemonic : “cloaks are abundant in the valley”. Primitives abundant, cloak, valley, eight, umbrella, mouth 余裕(よゆう): surplus, composure, margin, room, time, allowance, scope, rope Kunyomi: Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"abundant 裕 画数12 856 Details Story Dictionary 裕 abundant Heisig's This character shows the typical cloak of valley folk, which, unlike the tailor-made, high-fashion overcoats of city folk, is loose-fitting and free-form. Hence the key word's meaning of abundant. Koohii #1 Again using the fact that cleavage in Japanese is called ""valley of the chest"": a woman with abundant cleavage tightly wraps up her bosom in a form-fitting cloak, but leaving her valley exposed. Another unforgettable image (thank you, thank you, I´ll be here all week). Koohii #2 Welcome to cloak-valley, the valley where everyone wears cloaks and every shop sells cloaks. Mnemonic : “cloaks are abundant in the valley”. Primitives abundant, cloak, valley, eight, umbrella, mouth 余裕(よゆう): surplus, composure, margin, room, time, allowance, scope, rope Kunyomi: Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
lead (metal) Details Story Dictionary 鉛 lead (metal) Heisig's Metal . . . gully. Koohii #1 Picture the molten lead (the heavy metal) being discreetly drained out of the factory into a gully behind. Koohii #2 Lead -> Dental fillings -> Metal that enters the mouth to fill a hole in a tooth. Primitives lead, metal, gold, gully, eight, mouth 鉛(なまり): lead (the metal) 鉛筆(えんぴつ): pencil Kunyomi: なまり Onyomi: エン Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鉛 (なまり)	lead (metal) 鉛 画数13 857 Details Story Dictionary 鉛 lead (metal) Heisig's Metal . . . gully. Koohii #1 Picture the molten lead (the heavy metal) being discreetly drained out of the factory into a gully behind. Koohii #2 Lead -> Dental fillings -> Metal that enters the mouth to fill a hole in a tooth. Primitives lead, metal, gold, gully, eight, mouth 鉛(なまり): lead (the metal) 鉛筆(えんぴつ): pencil Kunyomi: なまり Onyomi: エン Lesson: 24 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鉛 (なまり)
run alongside Details Story Dictionary 沿 run alongside Heisig's Water . . . gully. The key word is meant to refer to things like rivers and railway tracks that run alongside something else. Koohii #1 Water in a gully runs alongside the path. Koohii #2 Picture one of those idiots that run alongside the bicyclists in the Tour de France trying to give them water. Watch as the cyclist shoves the person into a gully that runs alongside the road. Primitives run alongside, water, water droplets, water pistol, gully, eight, mouth 沿岸(えんがん): coast, shore 沿線(えんせん): along railway line 沿い(ぞい): along 沿う(そう): to run along, to follow Kunyomi: そ.う、-ぞ.い Onyomi: エン Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 沿う (そ.う)	run alongside 沿 画数8 858 Details Story Dictionary 沿 run alongside Heisig's Water . . . gully. The key word is meant to refer to things like rivers and railway tracks that run alongside something else. Koohii #1 Water in a gully runs alongside the path. Koohii #2 Picture one of those idiots that run alongside the bicyclists in the Tour de France trying to give them water. Watch as the cyclist shoves the person into a gully that runs alongside the road. Primitives run alongside, water, water droplets, water pistol, gully, eight, mouth 沿岸(えんがん): coast, shore 沿線(えんせん): along railway line 沿い(ぞい): along 沿う(そう): to run along, to follow Kunyomi: そ.う、-ぞ.い Onyomi: エン Lesson: 24 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 沿う (そ.う)
prize Details Story Dictionary 賞 prize Heisig's Outhouse . . . shellfish. Koohii #1 This is a bit silly.. or maybe not only a bit, but.. You know some foodstuffs (cereals come to mind) sometimes have prizes mixed in them? Well, in this case, the prize was a shell (money, remember) and you only notice in the outhouse... (see also secret (#904)). Koohii #2 As a prize for being the 1,000,000th person to use the restaurant´s outhouse, I got all the clams I could eat. Primitives prize, outhouse, small, little, crown, mouth, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 懸賞(けんしょう): offering prizes, winning, reward 入賞(にゅうしょう): winning a prize or place (in a contest) 鑑賞(かんしょう): appreciation 賞(しょう): prize, award 賞金(しょうきん): prize, monetary award 賞品(しょうひん): prize, trophy Kunyomi: ほ.める Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	prize 賞 画数15 859 Details Story Dictionary 賞 prize Heisig's Outhouse . . . shellfish. Koohii #1 This is a bit silly.. or maybe not only a bit, but.. You know some foodstuffs (cereals come to mind) sometimes have prizes mixed in them? Well, in this case, the prize was a shell (money, remember) and you only notice in the outhouse... (see also secret (#904)). Koohii #2 As a prize for being the 1,000,000th person to use the restaurant´s outhouse, I got all the clams I could eat. Primitives prize, outhouse, small, little, crown, mouth, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 懸賞(けんしょう): offering prizes, winning, reward 入賞(にゅうしょう): winning a prize or place (in a contest) 鑑賞(かんしょう): appreciation 賞(しょう): prize, award 賞金(しょうきん): prize, monetary award 賞品(しょうひん): prize, trophy Kunyomi: ほ.める Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
party Details Story Dictionary 党 party Heisig's Think of this key word as referring to a political party, not a gala affair. Its elements: human legs . . . sticking out of an outhouse window. Koohii #1 Every major political party, if personified, would look like a giant outhouse walking around with human legs spewing out a constant stream of bullshit. Koohii #2 Every political party is full of shit. But nobody ever says how they get that way. Well, here´s your answer - a political party memer is in the outhouse, greedily chowing down on the contents inside. He´s grown so accustomed to the taste that he´s in all the way, and all you can see are his legs through the window. He´ll come inside later to the auditorium to make a speech and spew everything out. Primitives party, outhouse, small, little, crown, mouth, human legs 野党(やとう): opposition party 与党(よとう): government party, (ruling) party in power, government 政党(せいとう): (member of) political party 党(とう): party (political), faction, -ite Kunyomi: なかま、むら Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	party 党 画数10 860 Details Story Dictionary 党 party Heisig's Think of this key word as referring to a political party, not a gala affair. Its elements: human legs . . . sticking out of an outhouse window. Koohii #1 Every major political party, if personified, would look like a giant outhouse walking around with human legs spewing out a constant stream of bullshit. Koohii #2 Every political party is full of shit. But nobody ever says how they get that way. Well, here´s your answer - a political party memer is in the outhouse, greedily chowing down on the contents inside. He´s grown so accustomed to the taste that he´s in all the way, and all you can see are his legs through the window. He´ll come inside later to the auditorium to make a speech and spew everything out. Primitives party, outhouse, small, little, crown, mouth, human legs 野党(やとう): opposition party 与党(よとう): government party, (ruling) party in power, government 政党(せいとう): (member of) political party 党(とう): party (political), faction, -ite Kunyomi: なかま、むら Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
hall Details Story Dictionary 堂 hall Heisig's Outhouse . . . land. Koohii #1 There is a secret hall buried in the soil underneath the outhouse. Koohii #2 In most communities you will be hauled into city hall if you use the ground as an outhouse. Primitives public chamber, outhouse, small, little, crown, mouth, soil, dirt, ground 議事堂(ぎじどう): Diet building 堂々(どうどう): magnificent, grand, impressive 講堂(こうどう): lecture hall 食堂(しょくどう): cafeteria, dining room Kunyomi: Onyomi: ドウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:	hall 堂 画数11 861 Details Story Dictionary 堂 hall Heisig's Outhouse . . . land. Koohii #1 There is a secret hall buried in the soil underneath the outhouse. Koohii #2 In most communities you will be hauled into city hall if you use the ground as an outhouse. Primitives public chamber, outhouse, small, little, crown, mouth, soil, dirt, ground 議事堂(ぎじどう): Diet building 堂々(どうどう): magnificent, grand, impressive 講堂(こうどう): lecture hall 食堂(しょくどう): cafeteria, dining room Kunyomi: Onyomi: ドウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:
usual Details Story Dictionary 常 usual Heisig's Outhouse . . . towel. Koohii #1 It´s usual to take your towel with you when you go to the outhouse at the onsen (hot springs bath in Japan) so everybody doesn´t see your stuff. Koohii #2 In the outhouse toilet you´d usually hope to find toilet paper to wipe your ass. If it´s already gone, which is usually the case, simply use the towel. Primitives usual, outhouse, small, little, crown, mouth, towel 正常(せいじょう): normalcy, normality, normal 通常(つうじょう): common, general, usually 平常(へいじょう): normal, usual 異常(いじょう): strangeness, abnormality, disorder 常識(じょうしき): common sense 常に(つねに): always, constantly 日常(にちじょう): ordinary, regular, everyday, usual 非常(ひじょう): emergency, extraordinary, unusual 非常に(ひじょうに): very, greatly Kunyomi: つね、とこ- Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 常 (つね), 常 (とこ)	usual 常 画数11 862 Details Story Dictionary 常 usual Heisig's Outhouse . . . towel. Koohii #1 It´s usual to take your towel with you when you go to the outhouse at the onsen (hot springs bath in Japan) so everybody doesn´t see your stuff. Koohii #2 In the outhouse toilet you´d usually hope to find toilet paper to wipe your ass. If it´s already gone, which is usually the case, simply use the towel. Primitives usual, outhouse, small, little, crown, mouth, towel 正常(せいじょう): normalcy, normality, normal 通常(つうじょう): common, general, usually 平常(へいじょう): normal, usual 異常(いじょう): strangeness, abnormality, disorder 常識(じょうしき): common sense 常に(つねに): always, constantly 日常(にちじょう): ordinary, regular, everyday, usual 非常(ひじょう): emergency, extraordinary, unusual 非常に(ひじょうに): very, greatly Kunyomi: つね、とこ- Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 常 (つね), 常 (とこ)
"skirt Details Story Dictionary 裳 skirt Heisig's The key word refers to an ancient skirt once used as part of a woman's costume. The primitives you have to work with are: outhouse . . . garment. Koohii #1 Compared to pants, a SKIRT is the GARMENT to be wearing when you want to use one of those Japanese toilets. It makes it so much easier: you just walk in the OUTHOUSE hike it up, and do your business. Koohii #2 Haven´t you ever noticed that the men / women signs on the front of outhouses are sometimes very similar? The silhouettes are usually the same, but one will decidedly be wearing a garment in the shape of a SKIRT. Also, we´ve already learned the kanji for ""woman"", so if the signs are only in kanji you have no right to wander in and claim ignorance, perv! Primitives skirt, outhouse, small, little, crown, mouth, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment Kunyomi: も、もすそ Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"skirt 裳 画数14 863 Details Story Dictionary 裳 skirt Heisig's The key word refers to an ancient skirt once used as part of a woman's costume. The primitives you have to work with are: outhouse . . . garment. Koohii #1 Compared to pants, a SKIRT is the GARMENT to be wearing when you want to use one of those Japanese toilets. It makes it so much easier: you just walk in the OUTHOUSE hike it up, and do your business. Koohii #2 Haven´t you ever noticed that the men / women signs on the front of outhouses are sometimes very similar? The silhouettes are usually the same, but one will decidedly be wearing a garment in the shape of a SKIRT. Also, we´ve already learned the kanji for ""woman"", so if the signs are only in kanji you have no right to wander in and claim ignorance, perv! Primitives skirt, outhouse, small, little, crown, mouth, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment Kunyomi: も、もすそ Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:"
manipulate Details Story Dictionary 掌 manipulate Heisig's Outhouse . . . hand. Koohii #1 If you´re going to manipulate your body with your hand, then go do it in an outhouse, at least! Koohii #2 Instead of magazines, we keep a Rubiks Cube in the outhouse to manipulate with your hands while you do your business. Primitives manipulate, outhouse, small, little, crown, mouth, hand 掌(たなごころ): the palm 車掌(しゃしょう): (train) conductor Kunyomi: てのひら、たなごころ Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	manipulate 掌 画数12 864 Details Story Dictionary 掌 manipulate Heisig's Outhouse . . . hand. Koohii #1 If you´re going to manipulate your body with your hand, then go do it in an outhouse, at least! Koohii #2 Instead of magazines, we keep a Rubiks Cube in the outhouse to manipulate with your hands while you do your business. Primitives manipulate, outhouse, small, little, crown, mouth, hand 掌(たなごころ): the palm 車掌(しゃしょう): (train) conductor Kunyomi: てのひら、たなごころ Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"pelt Details Story Dictionary 皮 pelt Heisig's The simplest way to remember this character is to see it as built up from that for branch. The first stroke can then stand for something ""hanging"" down from the branch, namely its bark or pelt. The barb at the end of the second stroke is the only other change. Merely by concentrating on this as you write the following small cluster of characters should be enough to fix the form in your mind. By way of exception, you might doodle around with the kanji's form to see what you can come up with. Koohii #1 A pelt is hooked on a branch. A small tent is made with a pelt and a branch planted in the ground. The mnemonic hints at the first stroke (the hanging pelt) and the hook at the end of the second stroke. This is chinese radical #107 meaning “skin”. Koohii #2 To be honest, this is one of those cases where I have found it easier to ""just remember it"" as a radical, as it occurs so frequently: 彼（かれ him）波（なみ wave）and so on. Primitives pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook 皮(かわ): skin, hide, leather, fur, pelt, bark, shell 毛皮(けがわ): fur, skin, pelt 皮肉(ひにく): cynicism, sarcasm, irony, satire 皮膚(ひふ): skin Kunyomi: かわ、けがわ Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 皮 (かわ)"	"pelt 皮 画数5 865 Details Story Dictionary 皮 pelt Heisig's The simplest way to remember this character is to see it as built up from that for branch. The first stroke can then stand for something ""hanging"" down from the branch, namely its bark or pelt. The barb at the end of the second stroke is the only other change. Merely by concentrating on this as you write the following small cluster of characters should be enough to fix the form in your mind. By way of exception, you might doodle around with the kanji's form to see what you can come up with. Koohii #1 A pelt is hooked on a branch. A small tent is made with a pelt and a branch planted in the ground. The mnemonic hints at the first stroke (the hanging pelt) and the hook at the end of the second stroke. This is chinese radical #107 meaning “skin”. Koohii #2 To be honest, this is one of those cases where I have found it easier to ""just remember it"" as a radical, as it occurs so frequently: 彼（かれ him）波（なみ wave）and so on. Primitives pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook 皮(かわ): skin, hide, leather, fur, pelt, bark, shell 毛皮(けがわ): fur, skin, pelt 皮肉(ひにく): cynicism, sarcasm, irony, satire 皮膚(ひふ): skin Kunyomi: かわ、けがわ Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 皮 (かわ)"
waves Details Story Dictionary 波 waves Heisig's Water's . . . pelt. Koohii #1 Waves are the ocean´s pelt (skin). Koohii #2 The Inuit used water-proof seal pelts for their kayaks, to travel the waves. Primitives waves, water, water droplets, water pistol, pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook 短波(たんぱ): short wave 津波(つなみ): tsunami, tidal wave 電波(でんぱ): electro-magnetic wave 波(なみ): wave Kunyomi: なみ Onyomi: ハ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 波 (なみ)	waves 波 画数8 866 Details Story Dictionary 波 waves Heisig's Water's . . . pelt. Koohii #1 Waves are the ocean´s pelt (skin). Koohii #2 The Inuit used water-proof seal pelts for their kayaks, to travel the waves. Primitives waves, water, water droplets, water pistol, pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook 短波(たんぱ): short wave 津波(つなみ): tsunami, tidal wave 電波(でんぱ): electro-magnetic wave 波(なみ): wave Kunyomi: なみ Onyomi: ハ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 波 (なみ)
"old woman Details Story Dictionary 婆 old woman Heisig's Waves . . . woman. Koohii #1 An old woman is seen here as a woman with waves (i.e. wrinkles, creases). Koohii #2 You know ""The Old Man and the Sea."" Well, this is the sequel, ""The Old Woman and the Sea Waves."". Primitives old woman, wave, water, water droplets, water pistol, pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook, woman Kunyomi: ばば、ばあ Onyomi: バ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"old woman 婆 画数11 867 Details Story Dictionary 婆 old woman Heisig's Waves . . . woman. Koohii #1 An old woman is seen here as a woman with waves (i.e. wrinkles, creases). Koohii #2 You know ""The Old Man and the Sea."" Well, this is the sequel, ""The Old Woman and the Sea Waves."". Primitives old woman, wave, water, water droplets, water pistol, pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook, woman Kunyomi: ばば、ばあ Onyomi: バ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
expose Details Story Dictionary 披 expose Heisig's Fingers . . . pelt. Koohii #1 You expose holes in a pelt by passing your fingers through them and wiggling them on the other side. The sense of the kanji here is to reveal something that was hidden, to make known, to open your heart (thus revealing it, exposing it to others), express your opinion, etc. Koohii #2 Think of it in this vulgar way. You really want her to expose her “beaver” pelt, so you have to encourage her with your fingers to expose it. Primitives expose, finger, fingers, pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	expose 披 画数8 868 Details Story Dictionary 披 expose Heisig's Fingers . . . pelt. Koohii #1 You expose holes in a pelt by passing your fingers through them and wiggling them on the other side. The sense of the kanji here is to reveal something that was hidden, to make known, to open your heart (thus revealing it, exposing it to others), express your opinion, etc. Koohii #2 Think of it in this vulgar way. You really want her to expose her “beaver” pelt, so you have to encourage her with your fingers to expose it. Primitives expose, finger, fingers, pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
rend Details Story Dictionary 破 rend My Story [Stone + Skin] Koohii #1 Before the invention of scissors or knives, sharp STONES were used to REND PELTs, so that caveman designers could complete new styles for the upcoming year. Koohii #2 Rend is a violent, primitive kind of word. (Image: cavemen rending pelts right off live animals with stone tools). Primitives rend, stone, rock, pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook 突破(とっぱ): breaking through, breakthrough, penetration 破壊(はかい): destruction 破棄(はき): revocation, annulment, breaking (e.g. treaty) 爆破(ばくは): blast, explosion, blow up 破損(はそん): damage 破裂(はれつ): explosion, rupture, break off 破産(はさん): (personal) bankruptcy 破片(はへん): fragment, splinter, broken piece 破く(やぶく): tear, violate, defeat, smash, destroy 破る(やぶる): tear, violate, defeat, smash, destroy 破れる(やぶれる): get torn, wear out Kunyomi: やぶ.る、やぶ.れる Onyomi: ハ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 破る (やぶ.る), 破れる (やぶ.れる)	rend 破 画数10 869 Details Story Dictionary 破 rend My Story [Stone + Skin] Koohii #1 Before the invention of scissors or knives, sharp STONES were used to REND PELTs, so that caveman designers could complete new styles for the upcoming year. Koohii #2 Rend is a violent, primitive kind of word. (Image: cavemen rending pelts right off live animals with stone tools). Primitives rend, stone, rock, pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook 突破(とっぱ): breaking through, breakthrough, penetration 破壊(はかい): destruction 破棄(はき): revocation, annulment, breaking (e.g. treaty) 爆破(ばくは): blast, explosion, blow up 破損(はそん): damage 破裂(はれつ): explosion, rupture, break off 破産(はさん): (personal) bankruptcy 破片(はへん): fragment, splinter, broken piece 破く(やぶく): tear, violate, defeat, smash, destroy 破る(やぶる): tear, violate, defeat, smash, destroy 破れる(やぶれる): get torn, wear out Kunyomi: やぶ.る、やぶ.れる Onyomi: ハ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 破る (やぶ.る), 破れる (やぶ.れる)
incur Details Story Dictionary 被 incur Heisig's Cloak . . . pelt. Koohii #1 If you wear a coat of fur (pelt) you are sure to incur the wrath of animal rights extremists. Koohii #2 A cloak of fur (pelt) will incur the wrath of animal lovers. Primitives incur, cloak, pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook 被る(かぶる): wear, put on (head), pour or dash water (on oneself) 被せる(かぶせる): cover (with something), plate something (with a metal), pour or dash a liquid (on something) 被害(ひがい): damage Kunyomi: こうむ.る、おお.う、かぶ.る、かぶ.せる Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 被る (こうむ.る)	incur 被 画数10 870 Details Story Dictionary 被 incur Heisig's Cloak . . . pelt. Koohii #1 If you wear a coat of fur (pelt) you are sure to incur the wrath of animal rights extremists. Koohii #2 A cloak of fur (pelt) will incur the wrath of animal lovers. Primitives incur, cloak, pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook 被る(かぶる): wear, put on (head), pour or dash water (on oneself) 被せる(かぶせる): cover (with something), plate something (with a metal), pour or dash a liquid (on something) 被害(ひがい): damage Kunyomi: こうむ.る、おお.う、かぶ.る、かぶ.せる Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 被る (こうむ.る)
remainder Details Story Dictionary 残 remainder My Story [SHHH (タ + 一) + Shish kebab] *Ssssh!!* Don't tell him I left the remainder of his *shish kebab* at the picnic. Koohii #1 The remainder of the bones have been thrown from the float (for the dogs maybe, at the end of the parade). Koohii #2 Throwing all those coins (see coin (#368)) was a really bad idea; people got mad with greed. The only remainders left were the bones of those that was on the float. Primitives remainder, bones, one, ceiling, evening, float 残金(ざんきん): remaining money 残酷(ざんこく): cruelty, harshness 残高(ざんだか): (bank) balance, remainder 名残(なごり): remains, traces, memory 残り(のこり): remnant, residue, remaining, left-over 残す(のこす): leave (behind, over), bequeath, save, reserve 残らず(のこらず): all, entirely, completely, without exception 残念(ざんねん): sorry 残る(のこる): remain Kunyomi: のこ.る、のこ.す、そこな.う、のこ.り Onyomi: ザン、サン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 残す (のこ.す), 残る (のこ.る)	remainder 残 画数10 871 Details Story Dictionary 残 remainder My Story [SHHH (タ + 一) + Shish kebab] *Ssssh!!* Don't tell him I left the remainder of his *shish kebab* at the picnic. Koohii #1 The remainder of the bones have been thrown from the float (for the dogs maybe, at the end of the parade). Koohii #2 Throwing all those coins (see coin (#368)) was a really bad idea; people got mad with greed. The only remainders left were the bones of those that was on the float. Primitives remainder, bones, one, ceiling, evening, float 残金(ざんきん): remaining money 残酷(ざんこく): cruelty, harshness 残高(ざんだか): (bank) balance, remainder 名残(なごり): remains, traces, memory 残り(のこり): remnant, residue, remaining, left-over 残す(のこす): leave (behind, over), bequeath, save, reserve 残らず(のこらず): all, entirely, completely, without exception 残念(ざんねん): sorry 残る(のこる): remain Kunyomi: のこ.る、のこ.す、そこな.う、のこ.り Onyomi: ザン、サン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 残す (のこ.す), 残る (のこ.る)
martyrdom Details Story Dictionary 殉 martyrdom Heisig's Bones . . . decameron. Koohii #1 Think of the early Christian martyrs who suffered martyrdom because of their faith. See them held in cells for 10 days (a decameron) before being fed to the lions. They appear before the chanting Roman crowds as bones to be devoured. Think of what was leftover after the lions finished them off....nothing, not even a pile of bones to bury. Koohii #2 The boney man martyred himself during his 10 day hunger-strike. Primitives martyrdom, bones, one, ceiling, evening, decameron, bound up, sun, day Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジュン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	martyrdom 殉 画数10 872 Details Story Dictionary 殉 martyrdom Heisig's Bones . . . decameron. Koohii #1 Think of the early Christian martyrs who suffered martyrdom because of their faith. See them held in cells for 10 days (a decameron) before being fed to the lions. They appear before the chanting Roman crowds as bones to be devoured. Think of what was leftover after the lions finished them off....nothing, not even a pile of bones to bury. Koohii #2 The boney man martyred himself during his 10 day hunger-strike. Primitives martyrdom, bones, one, ceiling, evening, decameron, bound up, sun, day Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジュン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
particularly Details Story Dictionary 殊 particularly Heisig's Bones . . . vermilion. Koohii #1 A t-bone steak is vermilion - particularly if served rare. Koohii #2 Castlevania -- The vermillion skeletons (bones) are particularly hard because they just keep regenerating. Primitives particularly, bones, one, ceiling, evening, vermilion, drop, not yet, one, tree, wood 殊に(ことに): especially, above all 特殊(とくしゅ): special, unique Kunyomi: こと Onyomi: シュ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 殊 (こと)	particularly 殊 画数10 873 Details Story Dictionary 殊 particularly Heisig's Bones . . . vermilion. Koohii #1 A t-bone steak is vermilion - particularly if served rare. Koohii #2 Castlevania -- The vermillion skeletons (bones) are particularly hard because they just keep regenerating. Primitives particularly, bones, one, ceiling, evening, vermilion, drop, not yet, one, tree, wood 殊に(ことに): especially, above all 特殊(とくしゅ): special, unique Kunyomi: こと Onyomi: シュ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 殊 (こと)
augment Details Story Dictionary 殖 augment Heisig's Bones . . . straightaway. Koohii #1 Advertisement for Breast Implants -- Tired of nights all alone? Want to get boned straightaway? AUGMENT your breasts and all your troubles will be solved! Koohii #2 In the movie “Gattaca”, Vincent Freeman (played by Ethan Hawke) augments his size by straightening his bones (his legs), in order to match up with the genetically “perfect” population, and reach his goal of travelling in space. The stretching of his lower leg bones involved multiplying the bone cells, another sense of this key word. Primitives augment, bones, one, ceiling, evening, straightaway, ten, needle, eye, fishhook 繁殖(はんしょく): breed, multiply, increase, propagation 殖やす(ふやす): to increase, to add to, to augment 殖える(ふえる): increase, multiply Kunyomi: ふ.える、ふ.やす Onyomi: ショク Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 殖える (ふ.える), 殖やす (ふ.やす)	augment 殖 画数12 874 Details Story Dictionary 殖 augment Heisig's Bones . . . straightaway. Koohii #1 Advertisement for Breast Implants -- Tired of nights all alone? Want to get boned straightaway? AUGMENT your breasts and all your troubles will be solved! Koohii #2 In the movie “Gattaca”, Vincent Freeman (played by Ethan Hawke) augments his size by straightening his bones (his legs), in order to match up with the genetically “perfect” population, and reach his goal of travelling in space. The stretching of his lower leg bones involved multiplying the bone cells, another sense of this key word. Primitives augment, bones, one, ceiling, evening, straightaway, ten, needle, eye, fishhook 繁殖(はんしょく): breed, multiply, increase, propagation 殖やす(ふやす): to increase, to add to, to augment 殖える(ふえる): increase, multiply Kunyomi: ふ.える、ふ.やす Onyomi: ショク Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 殖える (ふ.える), 殖やす (ふ.やす)
file Details Story Dictionary 列 file Heisig's Bones . . . saber. The sense of the key word is of people or things lined up in a row. Koohii #1 A line of skeletal warriors, all armed with sabers. Koohii #2 Skeleton army rank and file. Dudes made of bones carrying sabres. Primitives file, bones, one, ceiling, evening, sword, sabre, saber 整列(せいれつ): stand in a row, form a line 陳列(ちんれつ): exhibition, display, show 配列(はいれつ): arrangement, array (programming) 並列(へいれつ): arrangement, parallel, abreast 行列(ぎょうれつ): line, procession, matrix (mathematics) 列(れつ): line, row 列車(れっしゃ): train (ordinary) 列島(れっとう): chain of islands Kunyomi: Onyomi: レツ、レ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	file 列 画数6 875 Details Story Dictionary 列 file Heisig's Bones . . . saber. The sense of the key word is of people or things lined up in a row. Koohii #1 A line of skeletal warriors, all armed with sabers. Koohii #2 Skeleton army rank and file. Dudes made of bones carrying sabres. Primitives file, bones, one, ceiling, evening, sword, sabre, saber 整列(せいれつ): stand in a row, form a line 陳列(ちんれつ): exhibition, display, show 配列(はいれつ): arrangement, array (programming) 並列(へいれつ): arrangement, parallel, abreast 行列(ぎょうれつ): line, procession, matrix (mathematics) 列(れつ): line, row 列車(れっしゃ): train (ordinary) 列島(れっとう): chain of islands Kunyomi: Onyomi: レツ、レ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
split Details Story Dictionary 裂 split Heisig's File . . . garment. Koohii #1 They tried issuing the skeleton warriors with proper garments to wear, but they kept getting split by the sharp bones or by their sabres. In the end, it was decided they look scarier naked anyway. Koohii #2 Someone takes a sword made of bone to split the garment right down the middle. Very effective. Primitives split, file, bones, one, ceiling, evening, sword, sabre, saber, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment 裂ける(さける): to split, to tear, to burst 破裂(はれつ): explosion, rupture, break off 分裂(ぶんれつ): split, division, break up 裂く(さく): to tear, split Kunyomi: さ.く、さ.ける、-ぎ.れ Onyomi: レツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 裂く (さ.く), 裂ける (さ.ける)	split 裂 画数12 876 Details Story Dictionary 裂 split Heisig's File . . . garment. Koohii #1 They tried issuing the skeleton warriors with proper garments to wear, but they kept getting split by the sharp bones or by their sabres. In the end, it was decided they look scarier naked anyway. Koohii #2 Someone takes a sword made of bone to split the garment right down the middle. Very effective. Primitives split, file, bones, one, ceiling, evening, sword, sabre, saber, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment 裂ける(さける): to split, to tear, to burst 破裂(はれつ): explosion, rupture, break off 分裂(ぶんれつ): split, division, break up 裂く(さく): to tear, split Kunyomi: さ.く、さ.ける、-ぎ.れ Onyomi: レツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 裂く (さ.く), 裂ける (さ.ける)
ardent Details Story Dictionary 烈 ardent Heisig's File . . . oven fire. Koohii #1 The nazis were ardent believers in the master arian race, see them marching everyone else into the oven fires, single file. Koohii #2 The undead, marching single file, prove how ardent they are be walking across a field of flame. Fun fact, ardent used to mean to burn. Primitives ardent, file, bones, one, ceiling, evening, sword, sabre, saber, oven-fire, barbecue 強烈(きょうれつ): strong, intense, severe 猛烈(もうれつ): violent, vehement, rage Kunyomi: はげ.しい Onyomi: レツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	ardent 烈 画数10 877 Details Story Dictionary 烈 ardent Heisig's File . . . oven fire. Koohii #1 The nazis were ardent believers in the master arian race, see them marching everyone else into the oven fires, single file. Koohii #2 The undead, marching single file, prove how ardent they are be walking across a field of flame. Fun fact, ardent used to mean to burn. Primitives ardent, file, bones, one, ceiling, evening, sword, sabre, saber, oven-fire, barbecue 強烈(きょうれつ): strong, intense, severe 猛烈(もうれつ): violent, vehement, rage Kunyomi: はげ.しい Onyomi: レツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"death Details Story Dictionary 死 death Heisig's Bones . . . spoon. Note how the first stroke is extended to the right, forming a sort of ""roof"" overhead. Koohii #1 Ok, this is where knowing some Eastern culture comes in handy! In Japanese society, when someone dies they creamate the body and pick out the remaining bones with special chopsticks. In this case, they´re out of chopsticks so they decide to use (gasp!) a spoon instead. Koohii #2 Imagine the grim reaper (the bringer of death), carrying a spoon made of human bones instead of a scythe. Primitives death, bones, one, ceiling, evening, spoon, sitting on the ground 死(し): death, decease 死刑(しけい): death penalty, capital punishment 生死(せいし): life and death 死体(したい): corpse 死亡(しぼう): death, mortality 必死(ひっし): inevitable death, desperation, frantic, inevitable result 死ぬ(しぬ): to die Kunyomi: し.ぬ、し.に- Onyomi: シ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 死ぬ (し.ぬ)"	"death 死 画数6 878 Details Story Dictionary 死 death Heisig's Bones . . . spoon. Note how the first stroke is extended to the right, forming a sort of ""roof"" overhead. Koohii #1 Ok, this is where knowing some Eastern culture comes in handy! In Japanese society, when someone dies they creamate the body and pick out the remaining bones with special chopsticks. In this case, they´re out of chopsticks so they decide to use (gasp!) a spoon instead. Koohii #2 Imagine the grim reaper (the bringer of death), carrying a spoon made of human bones instead of a scythe. Primitives death, bones, one, ceiling, evening, spoon, sitting on the ground 死(し): death, decease 死刑(しけい): death penalty, capital punishment 生死(せいし): life and death 死体(したい): corpse 死亡(しぼう): death, mortality 必死(ひっし): inevitable death, desperation, frantic, inevitable result 死ぬ(しぬ): to die Kunyomi: し.ぬ、し.に- Onyomi: シ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 死ぬ (し.ぬ)"
interment Details Story Dictionary 葬 interment Heisig's Flowers . . . death . . . two hands. Do not confuse with bury (Frame 191). Koohii #1 I imagine an interment as a funeral. At this funeral it´s an open casket, and the dead body (death) is holding flowers with both of its hands. Koohii #2 During the interment ceremony, the grandchildren placed flowers over the dead body while the widow sat praying with two hands. Primitives interment, flowers, death, bones, one, ceiling, evening, spoon, sitting on the ground, two hands 葬る(ほうむる): to bury, to inter, to entomb, to consign to oblivion, to shelve 葬式(そうしき): funeral Kunyomi: ほうむ.る Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 葬る (ほうむ.る)	interment 葬 画数12 879 Details Story Dictionary 葬 interment Heisig's Flowers . . . death . . . two hands. Do not confuse with bury (Frame 191). Koohii #1 I imagine an interment as a funeral. At this funeral it´s an open casket, and the dead body (death) is holding flowers with both of its hands. Koohii #2 During the interment ceremony, the grandchildren placed flowers over the dead body while the widow sat praying with two hands. Primitives interment, flowers, death, bones, one, ceiling, evening, spoon, sitting on the ground, two hands 葬る(ほうむる): to bury, to inter, to entomb, to consign to oblivion, to shelve 葬式(そうしき): funeral Kunyomi: ほうむ.る Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 葬る (ほうむ.る)
wink Details Story Dictionary 瞬 wink Heisig's Eye . . . birdhouse . . . sunglasses. Koohii #1 Imagine Snoopy winking with his big eyes (and a happy smile) standing next to Woodstocks Birdhouse, woodstock being so cool that he wears little sunglasses. Koohii #2 What a dilemna, you wore SUNGLASSES over your EYES when you went to the BIRDHOUSE so you wouldn´t be recognized - but now you can´t WINK at the girl you want! Primitives wink, eye, Rose of Sharon, birdhouse, birdcage, claw, vulture, crown, sunglasses, dancing legs, ballerina, evening 瞬き(またたき): wink, twinkling (of stars), flicker (of light) 一瞬(いっしゅん): moment, instant 瞬間(しゅんかん): moment, second, instant Kunyomi: またた.く、まじろ.ぐ Onyomi: シュン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 瞬く (またた.く)	wink 瞬 画数18 880 Details Story Dictionary 瞬 wink Heisig's Eye . . . birdhouse . . . sunglasses. Koohii #1 Imagine Snoopy winking with his big eyes (and a happy smile) standing next to Woodstocks Birdhouse, woodstock being so cool that he wears little sunglasses. Koohii #2 What a dilemna, you wore SUNGLASSES over your EYES when you went to the BIRDHOUSE so you wouldn´t be recognized - but now you can´t WINK at the girl you want! Primitives wink, eye, Rose of Sharon, birdhouse, birdcage, claw, vulture, crown, sunglasses, dancing legs, ballerina, evening 瞬き(またたき): wink, twinkling (of stars), flicker (of light) 一瞬(いっしゅん): moment, instant 瞬間(しゅんかん): moment, second, instant Kunyomi: またた.く、まじろ.ぐ Onyomi: シュン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 瞬く (またた.く)
ear Details Story Dictionary 耳 ear Heisig's The pictograph for the ear looks much like that for eye, but note how the stroke order gives it a different look. Koohii #1 Your ear is like the eye on the side of your head for seeing things, but there is hair around it that creates jagged lines. Koohii #2 Pictograph, see book. * The primitive meaning can easily be extended to ear plugs. Primitives ear 耳鼻科(じびか): otolaryngology 初耳(はつみみ): something heard for the first time 耳(みみ): ear Kunyomi: みみ Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 耳 (みみ)	ear 耳 画数6 881 Details Story Dictionary 耳 ear Heisig's The pictograph for the ear looks much like that for eye, but note how the stroke order gives it a different look. Koohii #1 Your ear is like the eye on the side of your head for seeing things, but there is hair around it that creates jagged lines. Koohii #2 Pictograph, see book. * The primitive meaning can easily be extended to ear plugs. Primitives ear 耳鼻科(じびか): otolaryngology 初耳(はつみみ): something heard for the first time 耳(みみ): ear Kunyomi: みみ Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 耳 (みみ)
"take Details Story Dictionary 取 take Heisig's Ear . . . crotch. Koohii #1 You put your ear next to a womans crotch...and somehow, from it, you hear the words ""Take me...."". Koohii #2 Fuaburisu´s with a twist: You know that classic trick where someone pretends to take something out of an someone else´s ear (such as a coin). Instead of a cigarette or a pen he pulls the person’s crotch out of their ear. Very painful! Primitives take, ear, crotch 受け取り(うけとり): receipt 書き取り(かきとり): dictation 書き取る(かきとる): to write down, to take dictation, to take notes 聞き取り(ききとり): listening comprehension 下取り(したどり): trade in, part exchange 取材(しゅざい): choice of subject, collecting data 塵取り(ちりとり): dustpan 取っ手(とって): handle, grip, knob 取りあえず(とりあえず): at once, first of all, for the time being 取り扱い(とりあつかい): treatment, service, handling, management 取り扱う(とりあつかう): to treat, to handle, to deal in 取り替え(とりかえ): swap, exchange 取り組む(とりくむ): to tackle, to wrestle with, to engage in a bout, to come to grips with 取り締まり(とりしまり): control, management, supervision 取り締まる(とりしまる): to manage, to control, to supervise 取り調べる(とりしらべる): to investigate, to examine 取り立てる(とりたてる): to collect, to extort, to appoint, to promote 取り次ぐ(とりつぐ): to act as an agent for, to announce (someone), to convey (a message) 取り除く(とりのぞく): to remove, to take away, to set apart 取り引き(とりひき): transactions, dealings, business 取り巻く(とりまく): to surround, to circle, to enclose 取り混ぜる(とりまぜる): to mix, to put together 取り戻す(とりもどす): to take back, to regain 取り寄せる(とりよせる): to order, to send away for 取り分(とりわけ): especially, above all 乗っ取る(のっとる): to capture, to occupy, to usurp 引き取る(ひきとる): to take charge of, to take over, to retire to a private place 日取り(ひどり): fixed date, appointed day 受け取る(うけとる): to receive, to get, to accept, to take, to interpret, to understand 取り上げる(とりあげる): take up, pick up, disqualify, confiscate, deprive 取り入れる(とりいれる): harvest, take in, adopt 取り消す(とりけす): cancel 取り出す(とりだす): take out, produce, pick out 取れる(とれる): come off, be taken off, be removed, be obtained, leave, come out (e.g. photo), be interpreted 取り替える(とりかえる): exchange 取る(とる): take, pick up, harvest, earn, choose Kunyomi: と.る、と.り、と.り-、とり、-ど.り Onyomi: シュ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 取る (と.る)"	"take 取 画数8 882 Details Story Dictionary 取 take Heisig's Ear . . . crotch. Koohii #1 You put your ear next to a womans crotch...and somehow, from it, you hear the words ""Take me...."". Koohii #2 Fuaburisu´s with a twist: You know that classic trick where someone pretends to take something out of an someone else´s ear (such as a coin). Instead of a cigarette or a pen he pulls the person’s crotch out of their ear. Very painful! Primitives take, ear, crotch 受け取り(うけとり): receipt 書き取り(かきとり): dictation 書き取る(かきとる): to write down, to take dictation, to take notes 聞き取り(ききとり): listening comprehension 下取り(したどり): trade in, part exchange 取材(しゅざい): choice of subject, collecting data 塵取り(ちりとり): dustpan 取っ手(とって): handle, grip, knob 取りあえず(とりあえず): at once, first of all, for the time being 取り扱い(とりあつかい): treatment, service, handling, management 取り扱う(とりあつかう): to treat, to handle, to deal in 取り替え(とりかえ): swap, exchange 取り組む(とりくむ): to tackle, to wrestle with, to engage in a bout, to come to grips with 取り締まり(とりしまり): control, management, supervision 取り締まる(とりしまる): to manage, to control, to supervise 取り調べる(とりしらべる): to investigate, to examine 取り立てる(とりたてる): to collect, to extort, to appoint, to promote 取り次ぐ(とりつぐ): to act as an agent for, to announce (someone), to convey (a message) 取り除く(とりのぞく): to remove, to take away, to set apart 取り引き(とりひき): transactions, dealings, business 取り巻く(とりまく): to surround, to circle, to enclose 取り混ぜる(とりまぜる): to mix, to put together 取り戻す(とりもどす): to take back, to regain 取り寄せる(とりよせる): to order, to send away for 取り分(とりわけ): especially, above all 乗っ取る(のっとる): to capture, to occupy, to usurp 引き取る(ひきとる): to take charge of, to take over, to retire to a private place 日取り(ひどり): fixed date, appointed day 受け取る(うけとる): to receive, to get, to accept, to take, to interpret, to understand 取り上げる(とりあげる): take up, pick up, disqualify, confiscate, deprive 取り入れる(とりいれる): harvest, take in, adopt 取り消す(とりけす): cancel 取り出す(とりだす): take out, produce, pick out 取れる(とれる): come off, be taken off, be removed, be obtained, leave, come out (e.g. photo), be interpreted 取り替える(とりかえる): exchange 取る(とる): take, pick up, harvest, earn, choose Kunyomi: と.る、と.り、と.り-、とり、-ど.り Onyomi: シュ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 取る (と.る)"
gist Details Story Dictionary 趣 gist Heisig's Run . . . take. Koohii #1 The gist of it is this: We take the money and run! Koohii #2 Pickpocket advice: It´s simple, FIRST run, then take. Yeah, that´s the gist of it! Primitives gist, run, soil, dirt, ground, mend, take, ear, crotch 趣(おもむき): meaning, tenor, gist, effect, appearance, taste, grace, charm, refinement 趣旨(しゅし): object, meaning 趣味(しゅみ): hobby Kunyomi: おもむき、おもむ.く Onyomi: シュ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 趣 (おもむき)	gist 趣 画数15 883 Details Story Dictionary 趣 gist Heisig's Run . . . take. Koohii #1 The gist of it is this: We take the money and run! Koohii #2 Pickpocket advice: It´s simple, FIRST run, then take. Yeah, that´s the gist of it! Primitives gist, run, soil, dirt, ground, mend, take, ear, crotch 趣(おもむき): meaning, tenor, gist, effect, appearance, taste, grace, charm, refinement 趣旨(しゅし): object, meaning 趣味(しゅみ): hobby Kunyomi: おもむき、おもむ.く Onyomi: シュ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 趣 (おもむき)
utmost Details Story Dictionary 最 utmost Heisig's Sun . . . take. Koohii #1 TAKE the UTMOST care when you SUN bath all DAY, or you´ll get burned from your EARS to your CROTCH. Koohii #2 Do your utmost - seize(take) the day. Primitives utmost, sun, day, take, ear, crotch 最善(さいぜん): the very best 最早(もはや): already, now 最高(さいこう): highest, supreme, the most 最終(さいしゅう): last, final, closing 最中(さいちゅう): in the middle of, height of, midst 最低(さいてい): least, lowest, worst, nasty, disgusting, horrible, yuck! 最も(もっとも): most, extremely 最近(さいきん): recently 最後(さいご): last time 最初(さいしょ): first time Kunyomi: もっと.も、つま Onyomi: サイ、シュ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 最も (もっと.も)	utmost 最 画数12 884 Details Story Dictionary 最 utmost Heisig's Sun . . . take. Koohii #1 TAKE the UTMOST care when you SUN bath all DAY, or you´ll get burned from your EARS to your CROTCH. Koohii #2 Do your utmost - seize(take) the day. Primitives utmost, sun, day, take, ear, crotch 最善(さいぜん): the very best 最早(もはや): already, now 最高(さいこう): highest, supreme, the most 最終(さいしゅう): last, final, closing 最中(さいちゅう): in the middle of, height of, midst 最低(さいてい): least, lowest, worst, nasty, disgusting, horrible, yuck! 最も(もっとも): most, extremely 最近(さいきん): recently 最後(さいご): last time 最初(さいしょ): first time Kunyomi: もっと.も、つま Onyomi: サイ、シュ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 最も (もっと.も)
"snapshot Details Story Dictionary 撮 snapshot Heisig's Finger . . . utmost. This character is used for taking photographs. Note how, conveniently, the element for ""take"" is included in it. Koohii #1 Take the utmost care that you don´t have your finger in the way when you take a snapshot. Koohii #2 When I learned photography from my dad as a little girl, he explained the basics to me: ""when you take a snapshot, be careful not to put your fingers before the lens, and don´t look towards the sun (this was in the days that photographs would be spoiled by direct sunlight). Primitives snapshot, finger, fingers, utmost, sun, day, take, ear, crotch 撮影(さつえい): photographing 撮る(とる): take (a photo), make (a film) Kunyomi: と.る、つま.む、-ど.り Onyomi: サツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 撮る (と.る)"	"snapshot 撮 画数15 885 Details Story Dictionary 撮 snapshot Heisig's Finger . . . utmost. This character is used for taking photographs. Note how, conveniently, the element for ""take"" is included in it. Koohii #1 Take the utmost care that you don´t have your finger in the way when you take a snapshot. Koohii #2 When I learned photography from my dad as a little girl, he explained the basics to me: ""when you take a snapshot, be careful not to put your fingers before the lens, and don´t look towards the sun (this was in the days that photographs would be spoiled by direct sunlight). Primitives snapshot, finger, fingers, utmost, sun, day, take, ear, crotch 撮影(さつえい): photographing 撮る(とる): take (a photo), make (a film) Kunyomi: と.る、つま.む、-ど.り Onyomi: サツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 撮る (と.る)"
shame Details Story Dictionary 恥 shame Heisig's Ear . . . heart. It is most rare to have the heart at the right, rather than at the bottom. Take advantage of this fact when you compose your story. Koohii #1 Amelia Ear-Heart (sic) brought shame to those who said women couldn´t fly. Koohii #2 Vincent Van Gogh´s greatest shame was cutting off his ear to win the heart of a woman. Primitives shame, ear, heart 恥(はじ): shame, embarrassment 恥じらう(はじらう): to feel shy, to be bashful, to blush 恥じる(はじる): to feel ashamed 恥ずかしい(はずかしい): shameful, be ashamed Kunyomi: は.じる、はじ、は.じらう、は.ずかしい Onyomi: チ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 恥じらう (は.じらう), 恥じる (は.じる), 恥ずかしい (は.ずかしい), 恥 (はじ)	shame 恥 画数10 886 Details Story Dictionary 恥 shame Heisig's Ear . . . heart. It is most rare to have the heart at the right, rather than at the bottom. Take advantage of this fact when you compose your story. Koohii #1 Amelia Ear-Heart (sic) brought shame to those who said women couldn´t fly. Koohii #2 Vincent Van Gogh´s greatest shame was cutting off his ear to win the heart of a woman. Primitives shame, ear, heart 恥(はじ): shame, embarrassment 恥じらう(はじらう): to feel shy, to be bashful, to blush 恥じる(はじる): to feel ashamed 恥ずかしい(はずかしい): shameful, be ashamed Kunyomi: は.じる、はじ、は.じらう、は.ずかしい Onyomi: チ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 恥じらう (は.じらう), 恥じる (は.じる), 恥ずかしい (は.ずかしい), 恥 (はじ)
post Details Story Dictionary 職 post Heisig's The key word refers to one's occupation, or position of employment. Its elements: ear . . . kazoo. Koohii #1 Worst post in history: quality checker at the kazoo factory. Imagine the toll on your ears! Koohii #2 Buckingham Palace guards are famous for staying at their post no matter what, even if you blow a kazoo in their ear! Primitives post, ear, kazoo, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, fiesta 教職(きょうしょく): teaching certificate, the teaching profession 辞職(じしょく): resignation 職員(しょくいん): staff member, personnel 職務(しょくむ): professional duties 退職(たいしょく): retirement (from office) 役職(やくしょく): post, managerial position, official position 就職(しゅうしょく): finding employment, inauguration 職(しょく): employment 職業(しょくぎょう): occupation, business 職人(しょくにん): worker, mechanic, artisan, craftsman Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショク、ソク Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	post 職 画数18 887 Details Story Dictionary 職 post Heisig's The key word refers to one's occupation, or position of employment. Its elements: ear . . . kazoo. Koohii #1 Worst post in history: quality checker at the kazoo factory. Imagine the toll on your ears! Koohii #2 Buckingham Palace guards are famous for staying at their post no matter what, even if you blow a kazoo in their ear! Primitives post, ear, kazoo, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, fiesta 教職(きょうしょく): teaching certificate, the teaching profession 辞職(じしょく): resignation 職員(しょくいん): staff member, personnel 職務(しょくむ): professional duties 退職(たいしょく): retirement (from office) 役職(やくしょく): post, managerial position, official position 就職(しゅうしょく): finding employment, inauguration 職(しょく): employment 職業(しょくぎょう): occupation, business 職人(しょくにん): worker, mechanic, artisan, craftsman Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショク、ソク Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
holy Details Story Dictionary 聖 holy Heisig's Ear . . . mouth . . . king. Koohii #1 The trick for me is to remember that the 耳 is to the left of the 口. However, this is easy because a true holy man uses his ear to listen (i.e., to God or his supplicant) before he opens his mouth to speak, unlike a charlatan who just makes something up. Of course, kings are often true holy men and prophets (e.g., King David in the bible). Koohii #2 A holy man hears with his ears before he speaks with his mouth, which places him higher than a king in people´s esteem. Primitives holy, ear, mouth, king, jewel, ball 神聖(しんせい): holiness, sacredness, dignity 聖書(せいしょ): Bible, scriptures Kunyomi: ひじり Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	holy 聖 画数13 888 Details Story Dictionary 聖 holy Heisig's Ear . . . mouth . . . king. Koohii #1 The trick for me is to remember that the 耳 is to the left of the 口. However, this is easy because a true holy man uses his ear to listen (i.e., to God or his supplicant) before he opens his mouth to speak, unlike a charlatan who just makes something up. Of course, kings are often true holy men and prophets (e.g., King David in the bible). Koohii #2 A holy man hears with his ears before he speaks with his mouth, which places him higher than a king in people´s esteem. Primitives holy, ear, mouth, king, jewel, ball 神聖(しんせい): holiness, sacredness, dignity 聖書(せいしょ): Bible, scriptures Kunyomi: ひじり Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
daring Details Story Dictionary 敢 daring Heisig's Spike . . . ear . . . taskmaster. Koohii #1 Only a truly daring Japanese student would wear a spike in his ear under the gaze of the Japanese teacher taskmasters! Koohii #2 See that ear nailed over there ? It´s the ear of the last person who was too daring with the taskmistress. Primitives daring, street, nail, spike, ear, taskmaster 敢えて(あえて): dare (to do), challenge (to do) 勇敢(ゆうかん): bravery, heroism, gallantry Kunyomi: あ.えて、あ.えない、あ.えず Onyomi: カン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	daring 敢 画数12 889 Details Story Dictionary 敢 daring Heisig's Spike . . . ear . . . taskmaster. Koohii #1 Only a truly daring Japanese student would wear a spike in his ear under the gaze of the Japanese teacher taskmasters! Koohii #2 See that ear nailed over there ? It´s the ear of the last person who was too daring with the taskmistress. Primitives daring, street, nail, spike, ear, taskmaster 敢えて(あえて): dare (to do), challenge (to do) 勇敢(ゆうかん): bravery, heroism, gallantry Kunyomi: あ.えて、あ.えない、あ.えず Onyomi: カン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"listen Details Story Dictionary 聴 listen Heisig's Ear . . . needle . . . eye . . . heart. Compare frame 427 for this and the following kanji, and then once again when you get to frame 950. Koohii #1 I promise to use my ear to do nothing but listen ... stick a needle in my eye, cross my heart and hope to die! (Intentionally said backwards to get the order of the primitives correct). Koohii #2 Listening to others is different from hearing [1626] with the ear. One must allow the words to pierce through the eyes (the window of the soul) and reach deep into the heart...a symbol of thinking about and contemplating on what was said, not just the sounds of words spoken. A married man while reading his newspaper, his wife going on about something suddenly, says, ""You´re not listening to me, are you?"" He replies, ""I heard every word you said. You said..."" “Yes, but you´re not listening."". Primitives listen, ear, stethoscope, camel, ten, needle, eye, cross-eyed, net, heart 聴覚(ちょうかく): the sense of hearing 聴講(ちょうこう): lecture attendance, auditing 聴診器(ちょうしんき): stethoscope Kunyomi: き.く、ゆる.す Onyomi: チョウ、テイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 聴く (き.く)"	"listen 聴 画数17 890 Details Story Dictionary 聴 listen Heisig's Ear . . . needle . . . eye . . . heart. Compare frame 427 for this and the following kanji, and then once again when you get to frame 950. Koohii #1 I promise to use my ear to do nothing but listen ... stick a needle in my eye, cross my heart and hope to die! (Intentionally said backwards to get the order of the primitives correct). Koohii #2 Listening to others is different from hearing [1626] with the ear. One must allow the words to pierce through the eyes (the window of the soul) and reach deep into the heart...a symbol of thinking about and contemplating on what was said, not just the sounds of words spoken. A married man while reading his newspaper, his wife going on about something suddenly, says, ""You´re not listening to me, are you?"" He replies, ""I heard every word you said. You said..."" “Yes, but you´re not listening."". Primitives listen, ear, stethoscope, camel, ten, needle, eye, cross-eyed, net, heart 聴覚(ちょうかく): the sense of hearing 聴講(ちょうこう): lecture attendance, auditing 聴診器(ちょうしんき): stethoscope Kunyomi: き.く、ゆる.す Onyomi: チョウ、テイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 聴く (き.く)"
"pocket Details Story Dictionary 懐 pocket Heisig's State of mind . . . needle . . . eyes . . . garment. Koohii #1 (re: taijuando) When you are in New York City you have to be alert, i.e. in the ""New York State of Mind"": you need ten eyes to make sure no one will go through your garments and pick your pockets. Koohii #2 Imagine Darth Vader´s state of mind when he discovers his garment has not pockets. "" D O NOT WANT!"". Primitives pocket, Freud, state of mind, poltergeist, BernaE, ten, needle, eye, cross-eyed, net, top hat, scarf, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment 懐く(なつく): to become emotionally attached 懐かしい(なつかしい): dear, desired, missed Kunyomi: ふところ、なつ.かしい、なつ.かしむ、なつ.く、なつ.ける、なず.ける、いだ.く、おも.う Onyomi: カイ、エ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 懐かしい (なつ.かしい), 懐かしむ (なつ.かしむ), 懐く (なつ.く), 懐ける (なつ.ける), 懐 (ふところ)"	"pocket 懐 画数16 891 Details Story Dictionary 懐 pocket Heisig's State of mind . . . needle . . . eyes . . . garment. Koohii #1 (re: taijuando) When you are in New York City you have to be alert, i.e. in the ""New York State of Mind"": you need ten eyes to make sure no one will go through your garments and pick your pockets. Koohii #2 Imagine Darth Vader´s state of mind when he discovers his garment has not pockets. "" D O NOT WANT!"". Primitives pocket, Freud, state of mind, poltergeist, BernaE, ten, needle, eye, cross-eyed, net, top hat, scarf, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment 懐く(なつく): to become emotionally attached 懐かしい(なつかしい): dear, desired, missed Kunyomi: ふところ、なつ.かしい、なつ.かしむ、なつ.く、なつ.ける、なず.ける、いだ.く、おも.う Onyomi: カイ、エ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 懐かしい (なつ.かしい), 懐かしむ (なつ.かしむ), 懐く (なつ.く), 懐ける (なつ.ける), 懐 (ふところ)"
"ridicule Details Story Dictionary 慢 ridicule Heisig's State of mind . . . mandala. Koohii #1 I´ll focus on the mandala primitive here. I guess Heisig chose this keyword for phonetic reasons and as a character it´s the ""man"" in mandara/mandala (曼荼羅). A mandala is a graphic representation of the universe, here split in 3 planes of existance, the sun representing the cosmos, the eye represents the human observer, the crotch represents the animal instincts. Koohii #2 He´ s often ridiculed for having his eye on crotches all day. Primitives ridicule, Freud, state of mind, mandala, sun, day, eye, cross-eyed, net, crotch 怠慢(たいまん): negligence, procrastination, carelessness 我慢(がまん): patience, endurance, perseverance, tolerance, self-control, self-denial 自慢(じまん): pride, boast Kunyomi: Onyomi: マン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"ridicule 慢 画数14 892 Details Story Dictionary 慢 ridicule Heisig's State of mind . . . mandala. Koohii #1 I´ll focus on the mandala primitive here. I guess Heisig chose this keyword for phonetic reasons and as a character it´s the ""man"" in mandara/mandala (曼荼羅). A mandala is a graphic representation of the universe, here split in 3 planes of existance, the sun representing the cosmos, the eye represents the human observer, the crotch represents the animal instincts. Koohii #2 He´ s often ridiculed for having his eye on crotches all day. Primitives ridicule, Freud, state of mind, mandala, sun, day, eye, cross-eyed, net, crotch 怠慢(たいまん): negligence, procrastination, carelessness 我慢(がまん): patience, endurance, perseverance, tolerance, self-control, self-denial 自慢(じまん): pride, boast Kunyomi: Onyomi: マン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
loose Details Story Dictionary 漫 loose Heisig's Water . . . mandala. Koohii #1 One obscure Tibetan sect-- the Otaku cult-- has an unusually loose interpretation of mandala drawing practice. Instead of traditional mandalas they draw mangas (漫画). They then pour water on the image to wash it away, and begin anew. Koohii #2 Even NELSON MANDALA dreams of drops of WATER glistening on comic book/ anime girls with LOOSE morals. (This story has been edited in response reports). Primitives loose, water, water droplets, water pistol, mandala, sun, day, eye, cross-eyed, net, crotch 漫画(まんが): cartoon Kunyomi: みがりに Onyomi: マン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	loose 漫 画数14 893 Details Story Dictionary 漫 loose Heisig's Water . . . mandala. Koohii #1 One obscure Tibetan sect-- the Otaku cult-- has an unusually loose interpretation of mandala drawing practice. Instead of traditional mandalas they draw mangas (漫画). They then pour water on the image to wash it away, and begin anew. Koohii #2 Even NELSON MANDALA dreams of drops of WATER glistening on comic book/ anime girls with LOOSE morals. (This story has been edited in response reports). Primitives loose, water, water droplets, water pistol, mandala, sun, day, eye, cross-eyed, net, crotch 漫画(まんが): cartoon Kunyomi: みがりに Onyomi: マン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
buy Details Story Dictionary 買 buy Heisig's Eye . . . shellfish. Koohii #1 When something catches my eye, I take out a few clams and buy before anybody else does. Koohii #2 Rules to Buying: 1. You´ve had your eye on it for a while. 2. You have enough shells to afford it. Primitives buy, eye, cross-eyed, net, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 購買(こうばい): purchase, buy 売買(ばいばい): trade, buying and selling 買い物(かいもの): shopping 買う(かう): buy Kunyomi: か.う Onyomi: バイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 買う (か.う)	buy 買 画数12 894 Details Story Dictionary 買 buy Heisig's Eye . . . shellfish. Koohii #1 When something catches my eye, I take out a few clams and buy before anybody else does. Koohii #2 Rules to Buying: 1. You´ve had your eye on it for a while. 2. You have enough shells to afford it. Primitives buy, eye, cross-eyed, net, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 購買(こうばい): purchase, buy 売買(ばいばい): trade, buying and selling 買い物(かいもの): shopping 買う(かう): buy Kunyomi: か.う Onyomi: バイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 買う (か.う)
placement Details Story Dictionary 置 placement Heisig's Eye . . . straightaway. Koohii #1 On the JET Programme, many people have their eye on a placement in Tokyo, Osaka or another big city, and write it on their application form. They are usually sent to the countryside straightaway. Koohii #2 Working in retail you learn the placement of any item should be at eye level so it´s seen straightaway. Primitives placement, eye, cross-eyed, net, straightaway, ten, needle, eye, fishhook 位置(いち): location, position 処置(しょち): treatment 設置(せっち): establishment, institution 措置(そち): measure, step 配置(はいち): arrangement (of resources), disposition 放置(ほうち): leave as is, leave to chance, leave alone, neglect 前置き(まえおき): preface, introduction 物置き(ものおき): storeroom 装置(そうち): equipment, installation, apparatus 物置(ものおき): storage room 置く(おく): put, place Kunyomi: お.く、-お.き Onyomi: チ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 置く (お.く)	placement 置 画数13 895 Details Story Dictionary 置 placement Heisig's Eye . . . straightaway. Koohii #1 On the JET Programme, many people have their eye on a placement in Tokyo, Osaka or another big city, and write it on their application form. They are usually sent to the countryside straightaway. Koohii #2 Working in retail you learn the placement of any item should be at eye level so it´s seen straightaway. Primitives placement, eye, cross-eyed, net, straightaway, ten, needle, eye, fishhook 位置(いち): location, position 処置(しょち): treatment 設置(せっち): establishment, institution 措置(そち): measure, step 配置(はいち): arrangement (of resources), disposition 放置(ほうち): leave as is, leave to chance, leave alone, neglect 前置き(まえおき): preface, introduction 物置き(ものおき): storeroom 装置(そうち): equipment, installation, apparatus 物置(ものおき): storage room 置く(おく): put, place Kunyomi: お.く、-お.き Onyomi: チ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 置く (お.く)
penalty Details Story Dictionary 罰 penalty Heisig's Eye . . . words . . . saber. Koohii #1 For Japanese, when the mind´s eye (the sideways eye) feels guilty for something bad that the body has done, there are two penaltys to choose from. One, you can say I´m sorry. Two, you can commit suicide by sabre. Why, oh why, do so many Japanese executives commit suicide at the first sign of scandal when all the have to do is say I´m sorry to get off the hook. (on yomi: バチ, バツ). Koohii #2 There is a 3-way masterplan for every goalkeeper to prevent a goal at penalty shootout: 1. Look directly into the eyes of the player --- 2. Confuse him by screaming senseless words --- 3. Pull out you your saber and ... (that´s up to you). Primitives penalty, eye, cross-eyed, net, say, words, keitai, mouth, sword, sabre, saber 刑罰(けいばつ): judgement, penalty, punishment 処罰(しょばつ): punishment 罰(ばち): (divine) punishment, curse, retribution 罰する(ばっする): punish, penalize Kunyomi: ばっ.する Onyomi: バツ、バチ、ハツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 罰金 (ばっきん), 処罰 (しょばつ), 天罰 (てんばつ)	penalty 罰 画数14 896 Details Story Dictionary 罰 penalty Heisig's Eye . . . words . . . saber. Koohii #1 For Japanese, when the mind´s eye (the sideways eye) feels guilty for something bad that the body has done, there are two penaltys to choose from. One, you can say I´m sorry. Two, you can commit suicide by sabre. Why, oh why, do so many Japanese executives commit suicide at the first sign of scandal when all the have to do is say I´m sorry to get off the hook. (on yomi: バチ, バツ). Koohii #2 There is a 3-way masterplan for every goalkeeper to prevent a goal at penalty shootout: 1. Look directly into the eyes of the player --- 2. Confuse him by screaming senseless words --- 3. Pull out you your saber and ... (that´s up to you). Primitives penalty, eye, cross-eyed, net, say, words, keitai, mouth, sword, sabre, saber 刑罰(けいばつ): judgement, penalty, punishment 処罰(しょばつ): punishment 罰(ばち): (divine) punishment, curse, retribution 罰する(ばっする): punish, penalize Kunyomi: ばっ.する Onyomi: バツ、バチ、ハツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 罰金 (ばっきん), 処罰 (しょばつ), 天罰 (てんばつ)
"rather Details Story Dictionary 寧 rather Heisig's House . . . heart . . . eye . . . spike. Koohii #1 A pretty tough kanji. Think of elegant old housewives with English accents dining together at a HOUSE party. The hostess brings out a dish of hors d´oeuvres: a SPIKE of metal with an EYEBALL and a HEART skewered on it. Upon being offered this treat, one of the housewives says in her English accent, ""I´d RATHER not."". Koohii #2 Rather a house with a heart than an eye with a spike. Primitives rather, house, heart, eye, cross-eyed, net, street, nail, spike 寧ろ(むしろ): rather, better, instead 丁寧(ていねい): polite, courteous Kunyomi: むし.ろ Onyomi: ネイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"rather 寧 画数14 897 Details Story Dictionary 寧 rather Heisig's House . . . heart . . . eye . . . spike. Koohii #1 A pretty tough kanji. Think of elegant old housewives with English accents dining together at a HOUSE party. The hostess brings out a dish of hors d´oeuvres: a SPIKE of metal with an EYEBALL and a HEART skewered on it. Upon being offered this treat, one of the housewives says in her English accent, ""I´d RATHER not."". Koohii #2 Rather a house with a heart than an eye with a spike. Primitives rather, house, heart, eye, cross-eyed, net, street, nail, spike 寧ろ(むしろ): rather, better, instead 丁寧(ていねい): polite, courteous Kunyomi: むし.ろ Onyomi: ネイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"voiced Details Story Dictionary 濁 voiced Heisig's The key word for this kanji connotes the ""muddying"" effect on a soft consonant brought about by vibrating the vocal chords. For example, in English a ""j"" is voiced while a ""sh"" is unvoiced. In Japanese, the し is changed to じ when it is voiced. The primitives are: water . . . eye . . . bound up . . . insect. Koohii #1 The fly is wrapped in a spiderweb voicing ""Help me, Help Me"" under the watchful eye of the spider who´s venom is dripping like water from her fangs. Koohii #2 Pour water over the eyes of a bound up insect if you want to hear a pitiful buzz that is very similar to a VOICED consanant. Primitives voiced, water, water droplets, water pistol, spider, eye, cross-eyed, net, bound up, insect 清濁(せいだく): good and evil, purity and impurity 濁る(にごる): become muddy or impure Kunyomi: にご.る、にご.す Onyomi: ダク、ジョク Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 濁す (にご.す), 濁る (にご.る)"	"voiced 濁 画数16 898 Details Story Dictionary 濁 voiced Heisig's The key word for this kanji connotes the ""muddying"" effect on a soft consonant brought about by vibrating the vocal chords. For example, in English a ""j"" is voiced while a ""sh"" is unvoiced. In Japanese, the し is changed to じ when it is voiced. The primitives are: water . . . eye . . . bound up . . . insect. Koohii #1 The fly is wrapped in a spiderweb voicing ""Help me, Help Me"" under the watchful eye of the spider who´s venom is dripping like water from her fangs. Koohii #2 Pour water over the eyes of a bound up insect if you want to hear a pitiful buzz that is very similar to a VOICED consanant. Primitives voiced, water, water droplets, water pistol, spider, eye, cross-eyed, net, bound up, insect 清濁(せいだく): good and evil, purity and impurity 濁る(にごる): become muddy or impure Kunyomi: にご.る、にご.す Onyomi: ダク、ジョク Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 濁す (にご.す), 濁る (にご.る)"
ring (environment) Details Story Dictionary 環 ring (environment) My Story [King + one net + enderman {遠}] The *KING* has *ONE NET* and one *ENDERMAN* to protect his environment Koohii #1 Together with the next kanji, the keywords spell “send back the ring”. First we have a jewel. Next we have the great eye of Sauron searching for the fellowship hiding under the many ceilings during their journey. The fourth and fifth primitives are the mouth of Gollum always mumbling “My preciousss”; and Pippin´s scarf! Placement: the eye appears at the top similarly to how the Great Eye of Sauron is perched atop the Dark Tower. Koohii #2 In conjunction with send back (#837)....... When I tried to give her the jewel ring, she eyed me, threw it to the floor, opened her mouth and tried to speak, she said nothing. She grabbed her scarf and left. Primitives ring, king, jewel, ball, trampoline, eye, cross-eyed, net, one, ceiling, mouth, scarf 環境(かんきょう): environment, circumstance 循環(じゅんかん): circulation, rotation, cycle Kunyomi: わ Onyomi: カン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	ring (environment) 環 画数17 899 Details Story Dictionary 環 ring (environment) My Story [King + one net + enderman {遠}] The *KING* has *ONE NET* and one *ENDERMAN* to protect his environment Koohii #1 Together with the next kanji, the keywords spell “send back the ring”. First we have a jewel. Next we have the great eye of Sauron searching for the fellowship hiding under the many ceilings during their journey. The fourth and fifth primitives are the mouth of Gollum always mumbling “My preciousss”; and Pippin´s scarf! Placement: the eye appears at the top similarly to how the Great Eye of Sauron is perched atop the Dark Tower. Koohii #2 In conjunction with send back (#837)....... When I tried to give her the jewel ring, she eyed me, threw it to the floor, opened her mouth and tried to speak, she said nothing. She grabbed her scarf and left. Primitives ring, king, jewel, ball, trampoline, eye, cross-eyed, net, one, ceiling, mouth, scarf 環境(かんきょう): environment, circumstance 循環(じゅんかん): circulation, rotation, cycle Kunyomi: わ Onyomi: カン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
send back Details Story Dictionary 還 send back Heisig's Road . . . eye . . . ceiling . . . mouth . . . scarf. Koohii #1 You´ve probably guessed it by now, this is the road that Sam and Frodo take to send back the ring to Mount Doom! (see previous frame, the jewel is replaced by the road). Koohii #2 Continued from ring (#836)....... So I´m on the road going to send back the ring minus the jewel, the hit to the floor knocked it out. Primitives send back, trampoline, eye, cross-eyed, net, one, ceiling, mouth, scarf, road 還元(かんげん): resolution, reduction, return to origins 還暦(かんれき): 60th birthday 返還(へんかん): return, restoration Kunyomi: かえ.る Onyomi: カン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	send back 還 画数16 900 Details Story Dictionary 還 send back Heisig's Road . . . eye . . . ceiling . . . mouth . . . scarf. Koohii #1 You´ve probably guessed it by now, this is the road that Sam and Frodo take to send back the ring to Mount Doom! (see previous frame, the jewel is replaced by the road). Koohii #2 Continued from ring (#836)....... So I´m on the road going to send back the ring minus the jewel, the hit to the floor knocked it out. Primitives send back, trampoline, eye, cross-eyed, net, one, ceiling, mouth, scarf, road 還元(かんげん): resolution, reduction, return to origins 還暦(かんれき): 60th birthday 返還(へんかん): return, restoration Kunyomi: かえ.る Onyomi: カン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"husband Details Story Dictionary 夫 husband Heisig's The kanji for a husband or ""head of the family"" is based on the kanji for large and an extra line near the top for the ""head."" Recall the kanji for heavens already learned back in frame 457, and be sure to keep your story for this kanji different. Koohii #1 Even though it is argued size is not important, I´m sure most women would like their husband to have a big one. Koohii #2 Homer Simpson, as a primitive. Primitives husband, husband, one, large 丈夫(じょうふ): hero, gentleman, warrior, manly person, good health, robustness, strong, solid, durable 夫(おっと): (humble) (my) husband 工夫(くふう): device, scheme 夫婦(ふうふ): married couple, spouses, husband and wife, couple, pair 夫妻(ふさい): man and wife, married couple 夫人(ふじん): wife, Mrs., madam 丈夫(じょうぶ): good health, robustness, strong, solid, durable, hero, gentleman, warrior, manly person 大丈夫(だいじょうぶ): safe, all right, O.K. Kunyomi: おっと、そ.れ Onyomi: フ、フウ、ブ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 夫妻 (ふさい), 農夫 (のうふ), 凡夫 (ぼんおっと), 夫 (おっと)"	"husband 夫 画数4 901 Details Story Dictionary 夫 husband Heisig's The kanji for a husband or ""head of the family"" is based on the kanji for large and an extra line near the top for the ""head."" Recall the kanji for heavens already learned back in frame 457, and be sure to keep your story for this kanji different. Koohii #1 Even though it is argued size is not important, I´m sure most women would like their husband to have a big one. Koohii #2 Homer Simpson, as a primitive. Primitives husband, husband, one, large 丈夫(じょうふ): hero, gentleman, warrior, manly person, good health, robustness, strong, solid, durable 夫(おっと): (humble) (my) husband 工夫(くふう): device, scheme 夫婦(ふうふ): married couple, spouses, husband and wife, couple, pair 夫妻(ふさい): man and wife, married couple 夫人(ふじん): wife, Mrs., madam 丈夫(じょうぶ): good health, robustness, strong, solid, durable, hero, gentleman, warrior, manly person 大丈夫(だいじょうぶ): safe, all right, O.K. Kunyomi: おっと、そ.れ Onyomi: フ、フウ、ブ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 夫妻 (ふさい), 農夫 (のうふ), 凡夫 (ぼんおっと), 夫 (おっと)"
aid Details Story Dictionary 扶 aid Heisig's Fingers . . . husband. Koohii #1 Using his finger the husband sometimes is an erotic aid to his partner. Koohii #2 In Homer Simpsons´ house, the first aid kit is usually used for when he smashes his fingers trying to build something (there are countless Simpsons episodes you can draw from for this). Primitives aid, finger, fingers, husband 扶養(ふよう): support, maintenance Kunyomi: たす.ける Onyomi: フ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	aid 扶 画数7 902 Details Story Dictionary 扶 aid Heisig's Fingers . . . husband. Koohii #1 Using his finger the husband sometimes is an erotic aid to his partner. Koohii #2 In Homer Simpsons´ house, the first aid kit is usually used for when he smashes his fingers trying to build something (there are countless Simpsons episodes you can draw from for this). Primitives aid, finger, fingers, husband 扶養(ふよう): support, maintenance Kunyomi: たす.ける Onyomi: フ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
mountain stream Details Story Dictionary 渓 mountain stream Heisig's Water . . . vulture . . . husband. Koohii #1 The Simpsons are on vacation. Homer stops to take a leak in a mountain stream but gets snatched by an eagle. Hear his scream? Koohii #2 A husband who went fishing at the mountain stream to feed his family, fell in the rapids (we´ll assume this is a large mountain stream). He is saved from the waters by a great eagle. He comes back home with nothing to feed the family, his clothes still dripping wet as he tells his wife of how he was saved by a great eagle, and of course she does not believe him. The story continues in chicken (#1947). Primitives mountain stream, water, water droplets, water pistol, claw, vulture, husband Kunyomi: たに、たにがわ Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	mountain stream 渓 画数11 903 Details Story Dictionary 渓 mountain stream Heisig's Water . . . vulture . . . husband. Koohii #1 The Simpsons are on vacation. Homer stops to take a leak in a mountain stream but gets snatched by an eagle. Hear his scream? Koohii #2 A husband who went fishing at the mountain stream to feed his family, fell in the rapids (we´ll assume this is a large mountain stream). He is saved from the waters by a great eagle. He comes back home with nothing to feed the family, his clothes still dripping wet as he tells his wife of how he was saved by a great eagle, and of course she does not believe him. The story continues in chicken (#1947). Primitives mountain stream, water, water droplets, water pistol, claw, vulture, husband Kunyomi: たに、たにがわ Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
standard Details Story Dictionary 規 standard Heisig's Husband . . . see. Koohii #1 In the male-dominated world of yesterday, the husband´s way of seeing things was considered the standard point of view. Women who dared to disagree were frowned upon. Koohii #2 Unfortunately, Homer Simpson is the standard model of a husband in American society. (Placement: You have to look in the RIGHT places to find one that doesn´t fit that mold.). Primitives standard, husband, see, telescope, eye, human legs 規格(きかく): standard, norm 規制(きせい): regulation 規定(きてい): regulation, provisions 規範(きはん): model, standard, pattern, norm, criterion, example 規模(きぼ): scale, scope, plan, structure 規約(きやく): agreement, rules, code 正規(せいき): regular, legal, formal, established, legitimate 規準(きじゅん): standard, basis, criteria, norm 規律(きりつ): order, rules, law 定規(じょうぎ): (measuring) ruler 不規則(ふきそく): irregularity, unsteadiness, disorderly 規則(きそく): regulations Kunyomi: Onyomi: キ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	standard 規 画数11 904 Details Story Dictionary 規 standard Heisig's Husband . . . see. Koohii #1 In the male-dominated world of yesterday, the husband´s way of seeing things was considered the standard point of view. Women who dared to disagree were frowned upon. Koohii #2 Unfortunately, Homer Simpson is the standard model of a husband in American society. (Placement: You have to look in the RIGHT places to find one that doesn´t fit that mold.). Primitives standard, husband, see, telescope, eye, human legs 規格(きかく): standard, norm 規制(きせい): regulation 規定(きてい): regulation, provisions 規範(きはん): model, standard, pattern, norm, criterion, example 規模(きぼ): scale, scope, plan, structure 規約(きやく): agreement, rules, code 正規(せいき): regular, legal, formal, established, legitimate 規準(きじゅん): standard, basis, criteria, norm 規律(きりつ): order, rules, law 定規(じょうぎ): (measuring) ruler 不規則(ふきそく): irregularity, unsteadiness, disorderly 規則(きそく): regulations Kunyomi: Onyomi: キ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
"exchange Details Story Dictionary 替 exchange Heisig's Two husbands . . . day. Koohii #1 A show like ""Trading Spouses"" called ""exchanging husbands"" where 2 husbands are exchanged for a day (thanks dingomick). Koohii #2 Marge´s dream: to exchange Homer for another husband for just one day. Primitives exchange, husband, sun, day, tongue wagging, husband2 替える(かえる): to exchange, to interchange, to substitute, to replace 切り替える(きりかえる): to change, to exchange, to convert, to renew, to throw a switch, to replace, to switch over 取り替え(とりかえ): swap, exchange 為替(かわせ): money order, exchange 着替え(きがえ): changing clothes, change of clothes 交替(こうたい): alternation, change, shift, relief, relay 両替(りょうがえ): change, money exchange 取り替える(とりかえる): exchange Kunyomi: か.える、か.え-、か.わる Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 替える (か.える), 替わる (か.わる)"	"exchange 替 画数12 905 Details Story Dictionary 替 exchange Heisig's Two husbands . . . day. Koohii #1 A show like ""Trading Spouses"" called ""exchanging husbands"" where 2 husbands are exchanged for a day (thanks dingomick). Koohii #2 Marge´s dream: to exchange Homer for another husband for just one day. Primitives exchange, husband, sun, day, tongue wagging, husband2 替える(かえる): to exchange, to interchange, to substitute, to replace 切り替える(きりかえる): to change, to exchange, to convert, to renew, to throw a switch, to replace, to switch over 取り替え(とりかえ): swap, exchange 為替(かわせ): money order, exchange 着替え(きがえ): changing clothes, change of clothes 交替(こうたい): alternation, change, shift, relief, relay 両替(りょうがえ): change, money exchange 取り替える(とりかえる): exchange Kunyomi: か.える、か.え-、か.わる Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 替える (か.える), 替わる (か.わる)"
"approve Details Story Dictionary 賛 approve Heisig's Two husbands . . . shells. Koohii #1 Out of two potential husbands, which would you approve of? Well, the one with shells (money) of course!!! Koohii #2 Bush´s campaign- ""John Kerry approves using taxpayers´ money to support gay marriage. I don´t."" ""I approve this message"". Primitives approve, husband, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, husband2 賛美(さんび): praise, adoration, glorification 賛成(さんせい): approval, agreement, support, favour Kunyomi: たす.ける、たた.える Onyomi: サン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"approve 賛 画数15 906 Details Story Dictionary 賛 approve Heisig's Two husbands . . . shells. Koohii #1 Out of two potential husbands, which would you approve of? Well, the one with shells (money) of course!!! Koohii #2 Bush´s campaign- ""John Kerry approves using taxpayers´ money to support gay marriage. I don´t."" ""I approve this message"". Primitives approve, husband, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, husband2 賛美(さんび): praise, adoration, glorification 賛成(さんせい): approval, agreement, support, favour Kunyomi: たす.ける、たた.える Onyomi: サン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
submerge Details Story Dictionary 潜 submerge Heisig's Water . . . exchange. Koohii #1 When a submarine or similar vessel SUBMERGES an EXCHANGE of air for WATER takes place in special compartments. Koohii #2 The two husbands exchange for a day on the reality TV show (see exchange (#842)) finally goes underway. One of the two husband´s first job is to fix the water faucet in his new family´s apartment. Unfortunately, he isn´t very good at fixing things and after a few failed attempts the entire apartment is submerged in water. Primitives submerge, water, water droplets, water pistol, exchange, husband, sun, day, tongue wagging, husband2 潜る(くぐる): to drive, to pass through, to evade, to hide, to dive (into or under water), to go underground 潜水(せんすい): diving 潜入(せんにゅう): infiltration, sneaking in 潜る(もぐる): drive, pass through, evade, hide, dive (into or under water), go underground Kunyomi: ひそ.む、もぐ.る、かく.れる、くぐ.る、ひそ.める Onyomi: セン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 潜む (ひそ.む), 潜る (もぐ.る)	submerge 潜 画数15 907 Details Story Dictionary 潜 submerge Heisig's Water . . . exchange. Koohii #1 When a submarine or similar vessel SUBMERGES an EXCHANGE of air for WATER takes place in special compartments. Koohii #2 The two husbands exchange for a day on the reality TV show (see exchange (#842)) finally goes underway. One of the two husband´s first job is to fix the water faucet in his new family´s apartment. Unfortunately, he isn´t very good at fixing things and after a few failed attempts the entire apartment is submerged in water. Primitives submerge, water, water droplets, water pistol, exchange, husband, sun, day, tongue wagging, husband2 潜る(くぐる): to drive, to pass through, to evade, to hide, to dive (into or under water), to go underground 潜水(せんすい): diving 潜入(せんにゅう): infiltration, sneaking in 潜る(もぐる): drive, pass through, evade, hide, dive (into or under water), go underground Kunyomi: ひそ.む、もぐ.る、かく.れる、くぐ.る、ひそ.める Onyomi: セン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 潜む (ひそ.む), 潜る (もぐ.る)
"lose Details Story Dictionary 失 lose Heisig's ""To lose"" here takes the sense of ""misplace,"" not the sense of defeat, whose kanji we learned in frame 67. It pictures a husband with something falling from his side as he is walking along, something he loses. * As a primitive, this character can also mean to drop. Koohii #1 The drop falling here is the husband´s toupee... he´s already lost his hair once, now he´s losing it again. Such is life, I suppose. Koohii #2 Note: Heisig´s stroke order is wrong. It´s the same as vermilion, drop first. Homer loses/drops his wedding ring. Primitives lose, drop, husband 失格(しっかく): disqualification, elimination, incapacity (legal) 失調(しっちょう): lack of harmony 損失(そんしつ): loss 紛失(ふんしつ): losing something 失う(うしなう): lose, part with 過失(かしつ): error, blunder, accident 失業(しつぎょう): unemployment 失望(しつぼう): disappointment, despair 失恋(しつれん): disappointed love, broken heart, unrequited love, be lovelorn, 失敗(しっぱい): failure, fail Kunyomi: うしな.う、う.せる Onyomi: シツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 失う (うしな.う)"	"lose 失 画数5 908 Details Story Dictionary 失 lose Heisig's ""To lose"" here takes the sense of ""misplace,"" not the sense of defeat, whose kanji we learned in frame 67. It pictures a husband with something falling from his side as he is walking along, something he loses. * As a primitive, this character can also mean to drop. Koohii #1 The drop falling here is the husband´s toupee... he´s already lost his hair once, now he´s losing it again. Such is life, I suppose. Koohii #2 Note: Heisig´s stroke order is wrong. It´s the same as vermilion, drop first. Homer loses/drops his wedding ring. Primitives lose, drop, husband 失格(しっかく): disqualification, elimination, incapacity (legal) 失調(しっちょう): lack of harmony 損失(そんしつ): loss 紛失(ふんしつ): losing something 失う(うしなう): lose, part with 過失(かしつ): error, blunder, accident 失業(しつぎょう): unemployment 失望(しつぼう): disappointment, despair 失恋(しつれん): disappointed love, broken heart, unrequited love, be lovelorn, 失敗(しっぱい): failure, fail Kunyomi: うしな.う、う.せる Onyomi: シツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 失う (うしな.う)"
iron Details Story Dictionary 鉄 iron My Story He was digging for *gold*, but *missed out* {失} and found only iron ore. Koohii #1 Iron is a metal that gradually becomes lost due to oxidation and rust. Koohii #2 Compare with pig-iron (#270). In moving from pig-iron to iron, some of the metal´s maleability is LOST. (The only difference between the two kanji is that IRON has knee-less, unbending legs, while PIG-IRON (270) has very supple, bendable legs.). Primitives iron, metal, gold, lose, drop, husband 鉄棒(かなぼう): iron rod, crowbar, horizontal bar (gymnastics) 製鉄(せいてつ): iron manufacture 鉄鋼(てっこう): iron and steel 鉄片(てっぺん): iron scraps 私鉄(してつ): private railway 鉄(てつ): iron 鉄橋(てっきょう): railway bridge, iron bridge 鉄道(てつどう): railroad 鉄砲(てっぽう): gun 地下鉄(ちかてつ): underground train, subway Kunyomi: くろがね Onyomi: テツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	iron 鉄 画数13 909 Details Story Dictionary 鉄 iron My Story He was digging for *gold*, but *missed out* {失} and found only iron ore. Koohii #1 Iron is a metal that gradually becomes lost due to oxidation and rust. Koohii #2 Compare with pig-iron (#270). In moving from pig-iron to iron, some of the metal´s maleability is LOST. (The only difference between the two kanji is that IRON has knee-less, unbending legs, while PIG-IRON (270) has very supple, bendable legs.). Primitives iron, metal, gold, lose, drop, husband 鉄棒(かなぼう): iron rod, crowbar, horizontal bar (gymnastics) 製鉄(せいてつ): iron manufacture 鉄鋼(てっこう): iron and steel 鉄片(てっぺん): iron scraps 私鉄(してつ): private railway 鉄(てつ): iron 鉄橋(てっきょう): railway bridge, iron bridge 鉄道(てつどう): railroad 鉄砲(てっぽう): gun 地下鉄(ちかてつ): underground train, subway Kunyomi: くろがね Onyomi: テツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
alternate Details Story Dictionary 迭 alternate Heisig's To drop . . . road. Koohii #1 When you get lost, you just take an alternate road to get back on track. Koohii #2 When you lose your way, you can always try to tell the wife that you merely took an alternate road. To save time you know. I´m not LOST, I´m just taking an alternate road. Ahem. Primitives transfer, alternate, lose, drop, husband, road Kunyomi: Onyomi: テツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	alternate 迭 画数8 910 Details Story Dictionary 迭 alternate Heisig's To drop . . . road. Koohii #1 When you get lost, you just take an alternate road to get back on track. Koohii #2 When you lose your way, you can always try to tell the wife that you merely took an alternate road. To save time you know. I´m not LOST, I´m just taking an alternate road. Ahem. Primitives transfer, alternate, lose, drop, husband, road Kunyomi: Onyomi: テツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"retainer Details Story Dictionary 臣 retainer Heisig's This kanji is actually a pictograph for an eye, distorted to make it appear that the pupil is protruding towards the right. This may not be an easy form to remember, but try this: Draw it once rather large, and notice how moving the two vertical lines on the right as far right as possible gives you the pictograph of the eye in its natural form. The ""pop-eye"" image belongs to an Emperor's retainer standing in awe before his ruler. * As a primitive, the meaning of the key word becomes slave. Koohii #1 Its a pictograph of a teeth with a retainer in the middle. Koohii #2 Retainer = A slave (for the purposes of this kanji.) This is a pictograph of a slave collar with two handcuffs dangling from it. Primitives retainer, slave 総理大臣(そうりだいじん): Prime Minister 大臣(だいじん): cabinet minister Kunyomi: Onyomi: シン、ジン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 臣下 (しんか), 君臣 (くんしん)"	"retainer 臣 画数7 911 Details Story Dictionary 臣 retainer Heisig's This kanji is actually a pictograph for an eye, distorted to make it appear that the pupil is protruding towards the right. This may not be an easy form to remember, but try this: Draw it once rather large, and notice how moving the two vertical lines on the right as far right as possible gives you the pictograph of the eye in its natural form. The ""pop-eye"" image belongs to an Emperor's retainer standing in awe before his ruler. * As a primitive, the meaning of the key word becomes slave. Koohii #1 Its a pictograph of a teeth with a retainer in the middle. Koohii #2 Retainer = A slave (for the purposes of this kanji.) This is a pictograph of a slave collar with two handcuffs dangling from it. Primitives retainer, slave 総理大臣(そうりだいじん): Prime Minister 大臣(だいじん): cabinet minister Kunyomi: Onyomi: シン、ジン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 臣下 (しんか), 君臣 (くんしん)"
princess Details Story Dictionary 姫 princess Heisig's Woman . . . slave. Koohii #1 Princess Leia becomes Jabba´s slave (“princess Leia is a woman slave”). Koohii #2 Cinderella: A woman who was a slave who became a princess. Primitives princess, woman, retainer, slave Kunyomi: ひめ、ひめ- Onyomi: キ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 姫 (ひめ)	princess 姫 画数10 912 Details Story Dictionary 姫 princess Heisig's Woman . . . slave. Koohii #1 Princess Leia becomes Jabba´s slave (“princess Leia is a woman slave”). Koohii #2 Cinderella: A woman who was a slave who became a princess. Primitives princess, woman, retainer, slave Kunyomi: ひめ、ひめ- Onyomi: キ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 姫 (ひめ)
"storehouse Details Story Dictionary 蔵 storehouse Heisig's Flowers . . . parade . . . slaves. Koohii #1 The storehouse is overgrown with slaves. The slaves are to be sold in the store, to differentiate from a warehouse, which doesn´t have the word ""store"" in it. Koohii #2 Slaves moved flowers from the storehouse in preparation for the parade. Primitives storehouse, flowers, parade, retainer, slave 蔵(くら): warehouse, cellar, magazine, granary, godown, depository, treasury, elevator 蔵相(ぞうしょう): Minister of Finance 埋蔵(まいぞう): buried property, treasure trove 冷蔵(れいぞう): cold storage, refrigeration 貯蔵(ちょぞう): storage, preservation 冷蔵庫(れいぞうこ): refrigerator Kunyomi: くら、おさ.める、かく.れる Onyomi: ゾウ、ソウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 蔵 (くら)"	"storehouse 蔵 画数15 913 Details Story Dictionary 蔵 storehouse Heisig's Flowers . . . parade . . . slaves. Koohii #1 The storehouse is overgrown with slaves. The slaves are to be sold in the store, to differentiate from a warehouse, which doesn´t have the word ""store"" in it. Koohii #2 Slaves moved flowers from the storehouse in preparation for the parade. Primitives storehouse, flowers, parade, retainer, slave 蔵(くら): warehouse, cellar, magazine, granary, godown, depository, treasury, elevator 蔵相(ぞうしょう): Minister of Finance 埋蔵(まいぞう): buried property, treasure trove 冷蔵(れいぞう): cold storage, refrigeration 貯蔵(ちょぞう): storage, preservation 冷蔵庫(れいぞうこ): refrigerator Kunyomi: くら、おさ.める、かく.れる Onyomi: ゾウ、ソウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 蔵 (くら)"
entrails Details Story Dictionary 臓 entrails Heisig's Part of the body . . . storehouse. Koohii #1 You signed your organ donor card, right? So, when you die, your entrails and other body parts will be placed in a storehouse. Koohii #2 Again with the Pyramids, each Pharaoh had their entrails taken out and put into little jars that were shaped in the forms of their Gods and entombed along with the preserved body. So, the entrails are the parts of the body that are placed in the storehouse along with the Pharaoh! Damnit, why can´t they always be this easy? :(. Primitives entrails, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, storehouse, flowers, parade, retainer, slave 内臓(ないぞう): internal organs, intestines, viscera 心臓(しんぞう): heart Kunyomi: はらわた Onyomi: ゾウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	entrails 臓 画数19 914 Details Story Dictionary 臓 entrails Heisig's Part of the body . . . storehouse. Koohii #1 You signed your organ donor card, right? So, when you die, your entrails and other body parts will be placed in a storehouse. Koohii #2 Again with the Pyramids, each Pharaoh had their entrails taken out and put into little jars that were shaped in the forms of their Gods and entombed along with the preserved body. So, the entrails are the parts of the body that are placed in the storehouse along with the Pharaoh! Damnit, why can´t they always be this easy? :(. Primitives entrails, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, storehouse, flowers, parade, retainer, slave 内臓(ないぞう): internal organs, intestines, viscera 心臓(しんぞう): heart Kunyomi: はらわた Onyomi: ゾウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
intelligent Details Story Dictionary 賢 intelligent Heisig's Slave . . . crotch . . . shellfish. Koohii #1 An intelligent man is neither slave to his crotch nor to money. But an intelligent slave will know how to use his/her crotch to make money. Koohii #2 Every intelligent man is a slave to two things, his: 1) crotch, and 2) money. Primitives intelligent, loincloth, retainer, slave, crotch, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 賢明(けんめい): wisdom, intelligence, prudence 賢い(かしこい): wise, clever, smart Kunyomi: かしこ.い Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 賢い (かしこ.い)	intelligent 賢 画数16 915 Details Story Dictionary 賢 intelligent Heisig's Slave . . . crotch . . . shellfish. Koohii #1 An intelligent man is neither slave to his crotch nor to money. But an intelligent slave will know how to use his/her crotch to make money. Koohii #2 Every intelligent man is a slave to two things, his: 1) crotch, and 2) money. Primitives intelligent, loincloth, retainer, slave, crotch, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 賢明(けんめい): wisdom, intelligence, prudence 賢い(かしこい): wise, clever, smart Kunyomi: かしこ.い Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 賢い (かしこ.い)
kidney Details Story Dictionary 腎 kidney Heisig's Slave . . . crotch . . . flesh. Koohii #1 When the sex slave misbehaves, threaten to sell his body parts starting with his kidney. Koohii #2 If you have a weak KIDNEY, you´ll become a SLAVE to your CROTCH´s need to pee. Oh well, it´s just a weakness of the FLESH. Primitives kidney, loincloth, retainer, slave, crotch, moon, month, flesh, part of the body Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	kidney 腎 画数13 916 Details Story Dictionary 腎 kidney Heisig's Slave . . . crotch . . . flesh. Koohii #1 When the sex slave misbehaves, threaten to sell his body parts starting with his kidney. Koohii #2 If you have a weak KIDNEY, you´ll become a SLAVE to your CROTCH´s need to pee. Oh well, it´s just a weakness of the FLESH. Primitives kidney, loincloth, retainer, slave, crotch, moon, month, flesh, part of the body Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
"strict Details Story Dictionary 堅 strict Heisig's Slave . . . crotch . . . soil. Koohii #1 The strict parent thinks adolescent kids are ""slaves to their crotch"" (= can´t control their hormones), so he grounds them. Permanently! Koohii #2 I´m very strict about not just sleeping with anyone. People who are slaves to their crotches often end up with dirty genitalia and I don´t want to get their VD. (on yomi=ケン). Primitives strict, loincloth, retainer, slave, crotch, soil, dirt, ground 堅い(かたい): hard (especially wood), steadfast, honorable, stuffy writing Kunyomi: かた.い、-がた.い Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 堅い (かた.い)"	"strict 堅 画数12 917 Details Story Dictionary 堅 strict Heisig's Slave . . . crotch . . . soil. Koohii #1 The strict parent thinks adolescent kids are ""slaves to their crotch"" (= can´t control their hormones), so he grounds them. Permanently! Koohii #2 I´m very strict about not just sleeping with anyone. People who are slaves to their crotches often end up with dirty genitalia and I don´t want to get their VD. (on yomi=ケン). Primitives strict, loincloth, retainer, slave, crotch, soil, dirt, ground 堅い(かたい): hard (especially wood), steadfast, honorable, stuffy writing Kunyomi: かた.い、-がた.い Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 堅い (かた.い)"
"look to Details Story Dictionary 臨 look to Heisig's Slave . . . reclining . . . goods. The key word suggests both looking ahead to something and ""seeing to"" what is at hand. Consistent with everything we have learned about the role of the key word, this means that you must choose ONE meaning and stick to it. Koohii #1 The slave is look to the future, ""One day"" he thinks ""I will be able to recline with all my goods, a tv, stereo and washing machine, and when that day comes I shall be truly happy"" he sighs. Koohii #2 Imagine a slave(or in this case, a female porn star) looking to her new gangbang film where she reclines and gets all 3 holes filled at the same...........OK. Very vulgar, but I was inspired by raulir´s clever use of ""3 holes""......... Primitives look to, retainer, slave, reclining, lying down, goods, mouth, mouth3 臨む(のぞむ): to look out on, to face, to deal with, to attend (function) 臨時(りんじ): temporary, special, extraordinary Kunyomi: のぞ.む Onyomi: リン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 臨む (のぞ.む)"	"look to 臨 画数18 918 Details Story Dictionary 臨 look to Heisig's Slave . . . reclining . . . goods. The key word suggests both looking ahead to something and ""seeing to"" what is at hand. Consistent with everything we have learned about the role of the key word, this means that you must choose ONE meaning and stick to it. Koohii #1 The slave is look to the future, ""One day"" he thinks ""I will be able to recline with all my goods, a tv, stereo and washing machine, and when that day comes I shall be truly happy"" he sighs. Koohii #2 Imagine a slave(or in this case, a female porn star) looking to her new gangbang film where she reclines and gets all 3 holes filled at the same...........OK. Very vulgar, but I was inspired by raulir´s clever use of ""3 holes""......... Primitives look to, retainer, slave, reclining, lying down, goods, mouth, mouth3 臨む(のぞむ): to look out on, to face, to deal with, to attend (function) 臨時(りんじ): temporary, special, extraordinary Kunyomi: のぞ.む Onyomi: リン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 臨む (のぞ.む)"
"perusal Details Story Dictionary 覧 perusal Heisig's Slaves . . . reclining . . . floor . . . see. Koohii #1 The slave reclines on the floor at night to watch the stars. Since that´s the only thing the slave is allowed to “read”, he does so very thoroughly and diligently, hence perusal. Koohii #2 [+scottamus] ""Please, come in and peruse this fine selection of slaves, all reclining here on the floor for your perusal. Have a look here"": http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/0/09/Slave_ship_diagram.png/440px-Slave_ship_diagram.png. Primitives perusal, retainer, slave, reclining, lying down, one, floor, look, see, telescope, eye, human legs 閲覧(えつらん): inspection, reading 回覧(かいらん): circulation 観覧(かんらん): viewing 御覧なさい(ごらんなさい): (please) look, (please) try to do 御覧(ごらん): look, inspection, try 展覧会(てんらんかい): exhibition Kunyomi: み.る Onyomi: ラン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"perusal 覧 画数17 919 Details Story Dictionary 覧 perusal Heisig's Slaves . . . reclining . . . floor . . . see. Koohii #1 The slave reclines on the floor at night to watch the stars. Since that´s the only thing the slave is allowed to “read”, he does so very thoroughly and diligently, hence perusal. Koohii #2 [+scottamus] ""Please, come in and peruse this fine selection of slaves, all reclining here on the floor for your perusal. Have a look here"": http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/0/09/Slave_ship_diagram.png/440px-Slave_ship_diagram.png. Primitives perusal, retainer, slave, reclining, lying down, one, floor, look, see, telescope, eye, human legs 閲覧(えつらん): inspection, reading 回覧(かいらん): circulation 観覧(かんらん): viewing 御覧なさい(ごらんなさい): (please) look, (please) try to do 御覧(ごらん): look, inspection, try 展覧会(てんらんかい): exhibition Kunyomi: み.る Onyomi: ラン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"gigantic Details Story Dictionary 巨 gigantic Heisig's This kanji depicts a gigantic ""pop-eye,"" which accounts for its shape. Be sure not to confuse it with the slave (retainer) we just learned. Koohii #1 This is actually the top view of a porn star with a gigantic erect penis. The top and bottom are his arms and the middle is his penis. Imagine him making the pumping motion while he´s banging some chick. The arms move in, the penis moves out and vice versa. Koohii #2 The letter E, with a GIGANTIC middle stroke. Primitives gigantic, Fafner 巨(こ): big, large, great 巨大(きょだい): huge, gigantic, enormous Kunyomi: Onyomi: キョ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"gigantic 巨 画数5 920 Details Story Dictionary 巨 gigantic Heisig's This kanji depicts a gigantic ""pop-eye,"" which accounts for its shape. Be sure not to confuse it with the slave (retainer) we just learned. Koohii #1 This is actually the top view of a porn star with a gigantic erect penis. The top and bottom are his arms and the middle is his penis. Imagine him making the pumping motion while he´s banging some chick. The arms move in, the penis moves out and vice versa. Koohii #2 The letter E, with a GIGANTIC middle stroke. Primitives gigantic, Fafner 巨(こ): big, large, great 巨大(きょだい): huge, gigantic, enormous Kunyomi: Onyomi: キョ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
repel Details Story Dictionary 拒 repel Heisig's Fingers . . . gigantic. Koohii #1 A woman might be REPELLED by a porn star´s GIGANTIC penis, so he kindly offers to use his FINGERS instead. Koohii #2 Having gigantic fingers is useful to repel insects. You can swat them away a lot easier! Primitives repel, finger, fingers, gigantic, Fafner 拒絶(きょぜつ): refusal, rejection 拒否(きょひ): denial, veto, rejection, refusal Kunyomi: こば.む Onyomi: キョ、ゴ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 拒む (こば.む)	repel 拒 画数8 921 Details Story Dictionary 拒 repel Heisig's Fingers . . . gigantic. Koohii #1 A woman might be REPELLED by a porn star´s GIGANTIC penis, so he kindly offers to use his FINGERS instead. Koohii #2 Having gigantic fingers is useful to repel insects. You can swat them away a lot easier! Primitives repel, finger, fingers, gigantic, Fafner 拒絶(きょぜつ): refusal, rejection 拒否(きょひ): denial, veto, rejection, refusal Kunyomi: こば.む Onyomi: キョ、ゴ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 拒む (こば.む)
"power Details Story Dictionary 力 power Heisig's With a little imagination, one can see a muscle in this simple, two-stroke character meaning power. * As a primitive, either muscle or power can be used. Koohii #1 I always refer to the power of the KATAKANA ""KA"". Koohii #2 I have a very powerful muscle カ in my driveway! Primitives power, muscle, arnold 圧力(あつりょく): stress, pressure 威力(いりょく): power, might, authority, influence 権力(けんりょく): power, authority, influence 勢力(せいりょく): influence, power, might, strength, potency, force, energy 戦力(せんりょく): war potential 速力(そくりょく): speed 体力(たいりょく): physical strength 弾力(だんりょく): elasticity, flexibility 動力(どうりょく): power, motive power, dynamic force 浮力(ふりょく): buoyancy, floating power 武力(ぶりょく): armed might, military power, the sword, force 暴力(ぼうりょく): violence 有力(ゆうりょく): influence, prominence, potent 労力(ろうりょく): labour, effort, toil, trouble 引力(いんりょく): gravity 学力(がくりょく): scholarship, knowledge, literary ability 活力(かつりょく): vitality, energy 強力(きょうりょく): powerful, strong 協力(きょうりょく): cooperation, collaboration 効力(こうりょく): effect, efficacy, validity, potency 実力(じつりょく): merit, efficiency, arms, force 重力(じゅうりょく): gravity 力強い(ちからづよい): reassuring, emboldened 電力(でんりょく): electric power 努力(どりょく): great effort, exertion, endeavour, effort 能力(のうりょく): ability, faculty 魅力(みりょく): charm, fascination, glamour 力(ちから): strength, power Kunyomi: ちから Onyomi: リョク、リキ、リイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 権力 (けんりょく), 努力 (どりょく), 能力 (のうりょく), 力 (ちから)"	"power 力 画数2 922 Details Story Dictionary 力 power Heisig's With a little imagination, one can see a muscle in this simple, two-stroke character meaning power. * As a primitive, either muscle or power can be used. Koohii #1 I always refer to the power of the KATAKANA ""KA"". Koohii #2 I have a very powerful muscle カ in my driveway! Primitives power, muscle, arnold 圧力(あつりょく): stress, pressure 威力(いりょく): power, might, authority, influence 権力(けんりょく): power, authority, influence 勢力(せいりょく): influence, power, might, strength, potency, force, energy 戦力(せんりょく): war potential 速力(そくりょく): speed 体力(たいりょく): physical strength 弾力(だんりょく): elasticity, flexibility 動力(どうりょく): power, motive power, dynamic force 浮力(ふりょく): buoyancy, floating power 武力(ぶりょく): armed might, military power, the sword, force 暴力(ぼうりょく): violence 有力(ゆうりょく): influence, prominence, potent 労力(ろうりょく): labour, effort, toil, trouble 引力(いんりょく): gravity 学力(がくりょく): scholarship, knowledge, literary ability 活力(かつりょく): vitality, energy 強力(きょうりょく): powerful, strong 協力(きょうりょく): cooperation, collaboration 効力(こうりょく): effect, efficacy, validity, potency 実力(じつりょく): merit, efficiency, arms, force 重力(じゅうりょく): gravity 力強い(ちからづよい): reassuring, emboldened 電力(でんりょく): electric power 努力(どりょく): great effort, exertion, endeavour, effort 能力(のうりょく): ability, faculty 魅力(みりょく): charm, fascination, glamour 力(ちから): strength, power Kunyomi: ちから Onyomi: リョク、リキ、リイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 権力 (けんりょく), 努力 (どりょく), 能力 (のうりょく), 力 (ちから)"
man Details Story Dictionary 男 man Heisig's Rice fields . . . power. This character is the gender-specific man, not the generic human person of frame 951. Koohii #1 Male is seen here as muscles working in the field, in other words working in the rice fields is the work of the male who are usually stronger. This is more or less the meaning of the original Chinese character. Koohii #2 When it comes to choosing a MAN, I prefer brains over muscles. Primitives male, rice field, brains, power, muscle, arnold 男の人(おとこのひと): man 男子(だんし): youth, young man 長男(ちょうなん): eldest son 男性(だんせい): male 男(おとこ): man 男の子(おとこのこ): boy Kunyomi: おとこ、お Onyomi: ダン、ナン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 男子 (だんし), 男女 (だんじょ), 男性 (だんせい), 男 (おとこ)	man 男 画数7 923 Details Story Dictionary 男 man Heisig's Rice fields . . . power. This character is the gender-specific man, not the generic human person of frame 951. Koohii #1 Male is seen here as muscles working in the field, in other words working in the rice fields is the work of the male who are usually stronger. This is more or less the meaning of the original Chinese character. Koohii #2 When it comes to choosing a MAN, I prefer brains over muscles. Primitives male, rice field, brains, power, muscle, arnold 男の人(おとこのひと): man 男子(だんし): youth, young man 長男(ちょうなん): eldest son 男性(だんせい): male 男(おとこ): man 男の子(おとこのこ): boy Kunyomi: おとこ、お Onyomi: ダン、ナン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 男子 (だんし), 男女 (だんじょ), 男性 (だんせい), 男 (おとこ)
labor Details Story Dictionary 労 labor My Story [Punk (Hat + 3 drops) + Power] A bad laborer acts like a *punk* full of *power* Koohii #1 Those jocks who always tried to show their muscles in the schoolhouse are now the ones out there doing manual labor jobs while we sit here and learn Japanese. Ha! Koohii #2 At the schoolhouse, the administration develops the children´s muscles by making them do manual labour. Primitives labor, schoolhouse, owl, crown, power, muscle, arnold 労る(いたわる): to pity, to sympathize with, to console, to care for, to be kind to 過労(かろう): overwork, strain 勤労(きんろう): labor, exertion, diligent service ご苦労様(ごくろうさま): Thank you very much for your.... 疲労(ひろう): fatigue, weariness 労力(ろうりょく): labour, effort, toil, trouble 苦労(くろう): troubles, hardships 労働(ろうどう): manual labor, toil, work Kunyomi: ろう.する、いたわ.る、いた.ずき、ねぎら、つか.れる、ねぎら.う Onyomi: ロウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	labor 労 画数7 924 Details Story Dictionary 労 labor My Story [Punk (Hat + 3 drops) + Power] A bad laborer acts like a *punk* full of *power* Koohii #1 Those jocks who always tried to show their muscles in the schoolhouse are now the ones out there doing manual labor jobs while we sit here and learn Japanese. Ha! Koohii #2 At the schoolhouse, the administration develops the children´s muscles by making them do manual labour. Primitives labor, schoolhouse, owl, crown, power, muscle, arnold 労る(いたわる): to pity, to sympathize with, to console, to care for, to be kind to 過労(かろう): overwork, strain 勤労(きんろう): labor, exertion, diligent service ご苦労様(ごくろうさま): Thank you very much for your.... 疲労(ひろう): fatigue, weariness 労力(ろうりょく): labour, effort, toil, trouble 苦労(くろう): troubles, hardships 労働(ろうどう): manual labor, toil, work Kunyomi: ろう.する、いたわ.る、いた.ずき、ねぎら、つか.れる、ねぎら.う Onyomi: ロウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
recruit Details Story Dictionary 募 recruit Heisig's Graveyard . . . power. Koohii #1 The necromancer hangs out at the local graveyard and uses his dark powers to recruit an army of undead. Emphasize the verb form to keep distinct from the noun cadet (#1173). Koohii #2 WANTED: Hardworking GRAVEYARD diggers. Must have 6 months experience with POWERFUL muscles as will be working in South Africa burying deceased elephants. Primitives recruit, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard, power, muscle, arnold 応募(おうぼ): subscription, application 公募(こうぼ): public appeal, public contribution 募る(つのる): to invite, to solicit help participation etc 募金(ぼきん): fund-raising, collection of funds 募集(ぼしゅう): recruiting, taking applications Kunyomi: つの.る Onyomi: ボ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 募る (つの.る)	recruit 募 画数12 925 Details Story Dictionary 募 recruit Heisig's Graveyard . . . power. Koohii #1 The necromancer hangs out at the local graveyard and uses his dark powers to recruit an army of undead. Emphasize the verb form to keep distinct from the noun cadet (#1173). Koohii #2 WANTED: Hardworking GRAVEYARD diggers. Must have 6 months experience with POWERFUL muscles as will be working in South Africa burying deceased elephants. Primitives recruit, graveyard, flowers, sun, day, large, St. Bernard, power, muscle, arnold 応募(おうぼ): subscription, application 公募(こうぼ): public appeal, public contribution 募る(つのる): to invite, to solicit help participation etc 募金(ぼきん): fund-raising, collection of funds 募集(ぼしゅう): recruiting, taking applications Kunyomi: つの.る Onyomi: ボ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 募る (つの.る)
inferiority Details Story Dictionary 劣 inferiority Heisig's Few . . . muscles. Koohii #1 I have an inferiority complex because I have fewer muscles than everyone else at the gym. They all look like Macho Man Randy Savage (power) to me. Koohii #2 I had trouble remembering the relative position of the components, so now I use this story: Even muscular men have inferiority if they have few things above their muscles (i.e., brain cells). Primitives inferiority, few, power, muscle, arnold 劣る(おとる): fall behind, be inferior to Kunyomi: おと.る Onyomi: レツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 劣る (おと.る)	inferiority 劣 画数6 926 Details Story Dictionary 劣 inferiority Heisig's Few . . . muscles. Koohii #1 I have an inferiority complex because I have fewer muscles than everyone else at the gym. They all look like Macho Man Randy Savage (power) to me. Koohii #2 I had trouble remembering the relative position of the components, so now I use this story: Even muscular men have inferiority if they have few things above their muscles (i.e., brain cells). Primitives inferiority, few, power, muscle, arnold 劣る(おとる): fall behind, be inferior to Kunyomi: おと.る Onyomi: レツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 劣る (おと.る)
achievement Details Story Dictionary 功 achievement Heisig's Craft . . . power. Koohii #1 The great achievements of humankind, were crafts completed by muscle power: the pyramids, the Eiffel tower, etc. Koohii #2 All of Arnold Schwarzenegger´s achievements started with him crafting his muscles. Primitives achievement, craft, powered, power, muscle, arnold 功績(こうせき): achievements, merit, meritorious service, meritorious deed 成功(せいこう): success, hit Kunyomi: いさお Onyomi: コウ、ク Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 功名 (こうみょう), 功績 (こうせき), 成功 (せいこう)	achievement 功 画数5 927 Details Story Dictionary 功 achievement Heisig's Craft . . . power. Koohii #1 The great achievements of humankind, were crafts completed by muscle power: the pyramids, the Eiffel tower, etc. Koohii #2 All of Arnold Schwarzenegger´s achievements started with him crafting his muscles. Primitives achievement, craft, powered, power, muscle, arnold 功績(こうせき): achievements, merit, meritorious service, meritorious deed 成功(せいこう): success, hit Kunyomi: いさお Onyomi: コウ、ク Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 功名 (こうみょう), 功績 (こうせき), 成功 (せいこう)
"persuade Details Story Dictionary 勧 persuade Heisig's Pegasus . . . power. Koohii #1 Mnemonic ""pegasus persuasion power"". I think of the hippogriff from Harry Potter as being like a pegasus. To befriend a hippogriff, you have to persuade it you mean no harm, you can do this if you have ""pegasus persuasion power"". Koohii #2 It would take a powerful argument to persuade me Pegasus was real… RTK2:　カン　勧奨　かんしょう(encouragement)… 　　　　　　　　Semi-Pure Group:　歓570　観572 　(ｹﾝ): 権571. Primitives persuade, pegasus, horse, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse, turkey, power, muscle, arnold 勧誘(かんゆう): invitation, solicitation, canvassing, inducement, persuasion, encouragement 勧告(かんこく): advice, counsel, remonstrance, recommendation 勧め(すすめ): recommendation, advice, encouragement 勧める(すすめる): recommend, advise, encourage Kunyomi: すす.める Onyomi: カン、ケン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 勧める (すす.める)"	"persuade 勧 画数13 928 Details Story Dictionary 勧 persuade Heisig's Pegasus . . . power. Koohii #1 Mnemonic ""pegasus persuasion power"". I think of the hippogriff from Harry Potter as being like a pegasus. To befriend a hippogriff, you have to persuade it you mean no harm, you can do this if you have ""pegasus persuasion power"". Koohii #2 It would take a powerful argument to persuade me Pegasus was real… RTK2:　カン　勧奨　かんしょう(encouragement)… 　　　　　　　　Semi-Pure Group:　歓570　観572 　(ｹﾝ): 権571. Primitives persuade, pegasus, horse, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse, turkey, power, muscle, arnold 勧誘(かんゆう): invitation, solicitation, canvassing, inducement, persuasion, encouragement 勧告(かんこく): advice, counsel, remonstrance, recommendation 勧め(すすめ): recommendation, advice, encouragement 勧める(すすめる): recommend, advise, encourage Kunyomi: すす.める Onyomi: カン、ケン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 勧める (すす.める)"
toil Details Story Dictionary 努 toil My Story [Servant (Woman + crotch) + Power] The *servant* (Woman + crotch) toiled with all her *power* to legalize shrooms Koohii #1 GUY POWER!!! Body builders toiling in the gym all day....　　　　　RTK2:　ド　努力　どりょく (effort)...　Pure Group: 　奴702 　怒703. Koohii #2 Guy + Power: To reach a position of power in the company, the average guy has to toil very hard for many years. Primitives toil, guy, woman, crotch, power, muscle, arnold 努めて(つとめて): make an effort!, work hard! 努める(つとめる): to exert oneself, to make great effort, to try hard 努力(どりょく): great effort, exertion, endeavour, effort Kunyomi: つと.める Onyomi: ド Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 努める (つと.める)	toil 努 画数7 929 Details Story Dictionary 努 toil My Story [Servant (Woman + crotch) + Power] The *servant* (Woman + crotch) toiled with all her *power* to legalize shrooms Koohii #1 GUY POWER!!! Body builders toiling in the gym all day....　　　　　RTK2:　ド　努力　どりょく (effort)...　Pure Group: 　奴702 　怒703. Koohii #2 Guy + Power: To reach a position of power in the company, the average guy has to toil very hard for many years. Primitives toil, guy, woman, crotch, power, muscle, arnold 努めて(つとめて): make an effort!, work hard! 努める(つとめる): to exert oneself, to make great effort, to try hard 努力(どりょく): great effort, exertion, endeavour, effort Kunyomi: つと.める Onyomi: ド Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 努める (つと.める)
"uprising Details Story Dictionary 勃 uprising Heisig's If you think of the ten as a little ""cross"" sitting atop the root of a house where we are used to seeing the ""chimney"" (drop), then you have the image of a chapel. (This combination will appear once more in this book: Frame 1465.) To complete the picture for uprising, add: child . . . muscles. Koohii #1 An erection can shoot like a needle from its crown and has the power to make a child. Koohii #2 The erection is the crowned needle that´s got the power to make children. Primitives erection, bishop, cross, ten, needle, crown, child, power, muscle, arnold Kunyomi: おこ.る、にわかに Onyomi: ボツ、ホツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"uprising 勃 画数9 930 Details Story Dictionary 勃 uprising Heisig's If you think of the ten as a little ""cross"" sitting atop the root of a house where we are used to seeing the ""chimney"" (drop), then you have the image of a chapel. (This combination will appear once more in this book: Frame 1465.) To complete the picture for uprising, add: child . . . muscles. Koohii #1 An erection can shoot like a needle from its crown and has the power to make a child. Koohii #2 The erection is the crowned needle that´s got the power to make children. Primitives erection, bishop, cross, ten, needle, crown, child, power, muscle, arnold Kunyomi: おこ.る、にわかに Onyomi: ボツ、ホツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
encourage Details Story Dictionary 励 encourage Heisig's Cliff . . . ten thousand . . . power. Koohii #1 10,000 Persians are at the base of the cliff, but the leader of the 300 Spartans just flexes his huge muscles and encourages his men by shouting that they have the power to fight them all. Koohii #2 People encourage you, giving you the power so you can dive off the 10,000m high cliff into the sea. Primitives encourage, Wimbledon, cliff, ten thousand, power, muscle, arnold 激励(げきれい): encouragement 奨励(しょうれい): encouragement, promotion, message, address 励ます(はげます): to encourage, to cheer, to raise (the voice) 励む(はげむ): to be zealous, to brace oneself, to endeavour, to strive, to make an effort Kunyomi: はげ.む、はげ.ます Onyomi: レイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 励ます (はげ.ます), 励む (はげ.む)	encourage 励 画数7 931 Details Story Dictionary 励 encourage Heisig's Cliff . . . ten thousand . . . power. Koohii #1 10,000 Persians are at the base of the cliff, but the leader of the 300 Spartans just flexes his huge muscles and encourages his men by shouting that they have the power to fight them all. Koohii #2 People encourage you, giving you the power so you can dive off the 10,000m high cliff into the sea. Primitives encourage, Wimbledon, cliff, ten thousand, power, muscle, arnold 激励(げきれい): encouragement 奨励(しょうれい): encouragement, promotion, message, address 励ます(はげます): to encourage, to cheer, to raise (the voice) 励む(はげむ): to be zealous, to brace oneself, to endeavour, to strive, to make an effort Kunyomi: はげ.む、はげ.ます Onyomi: レイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 励ます (はげ.ます), 励む (はげ.む)
add Details Story Dictionary 加 add My Story If you eat anymore, you will be adding more カロries. (katakana karo) Koohii #1 If you eat anymore, you will be adding more カロries. (katakana karo). Koohii #2 This is Power Mouth, the most annoying neighbour in the world who always has something to add. Primitives add, power, muscle, arnold, mouth いい加減(いいかげん): moderate, right, random, not thorough, vague, irresponsible, halfhearted 加工(かこう): manufacturing, processing, treatment 加入(かにゅう): becoming a member, joining, entry, admission, subscription, affiliation, adherence, signing 加味(かみ): seasoning, flavoring 加留多(かるた): (pt:) (n) playing cards (pt: carta) 付け加える(つけくわえる): to add one thing to another 加減(かげん): addition and subtraction, degree, extent, measure, chance 加速(かそく): acceleration 加速度(かそくど): acceleration 加熱(かねつ): heating 加える(くわえる): append, sum up, include, increase, inflict 加わる(くわわる): join in, accede to, increase, gain in (influence) 参加(さんか): participation 増加(ぞうか): increase, addition 追加(ついか): addition, supplement, appendix Kunyomi: くわ.える、くわ.わる Onyomi: カ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 加える (くわ.える), 加わる (くわ.わる)	add 加 画数5 932 Details Story Dictionary 加 add My Story If you eat anymore, you will be adding more カロries. (katakana karo) Koohii #1 If you eat anymore, you will be adding more カロries. (katakana karo). Koohii #2 This is Power Mouth, the most annoying neighbour in the world who always has something to add. Primitives add, power, muscle, arnold, mouth いい加減(いいかげん): moderate, right, random, not thorough, vague, irresponsible, halfhearted 加工(かこう): manufacturing, processing, treatment 加入(かにゅう): becoming a member, joining, entry, admission, subscription, affiliation, adherence, signing 加味(かみ): seasoning, flavoring 加留多(かるた): (pt:) (n) playing cards (pt: carta) 付け加える(つけくわえる): to add one thing to another 加減(かげん): addition and subtraction, degree, extent, measure, chance 加速(かそく): acceleration 加速度(かそくど): acceleration 加熱(かねつ): heating 加える(くわえる): append, sum up, include, increase, inflict 加わる(くわわる): join in, accede to, increase, gain in (influence) 参加(さんか): participation 増加(ぞうか): increase, addition 追加(ついか): addition, supplement, appendix Kunyomi: くわ.える、くわ.わる Onyomi: カ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 加える (くわ.える), 加わる (くわ.わる)
congratulations Details Story Dictionary 賀 congratulations Heisig's Add . . . shells. Koohii #1 When someone at work gets married, you pass around an envelope to which you add some money and a card which you sign with your congratulations. Koohii #2 Congratulations are so much better when you add money to them. Primitives congratulations, add, power, muscle, arnold, mouth, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 祝賀(しゅくが): celebration, congratulations Kunyomi: Onyomi: ガ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	congratulations 賀 画数12 933 Details Story Dictionary 賀 congratulations Heisig's Add . . . shells. Koohii #1 When someone at work gets married, you pass around an envelope to which you add some money and a card which you sign with your congratulations. Koohii #2 Congratulations are so much better when you add money to them. Primitives congratulations, add, power, muscle, arnold, mouth, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 祝賀(しゅくが): celebration, congratulations Kunyomi: Onyomi: ガ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"erect Details Story Dictionary 架 erect Heisig's Add . . . trees. Hint: if you ever played with an ""Erector Set"" or ""Tinker Toys"" as a child, don't pass up the opportunity to relate it to this kanji's key word and the element for trees. Koohii #1 Instant wood. Just add Viagra. Koohii #2 I´m not sure I know about erector sets or tinker toys but I do know about jenga. You play by taking wooden pieces from the middle of a wooden tower and adding them to the top. In this way you erect a very unstable structure. Primitives erect, add, power, muscle, arnold, mouth, tree, wood 担架(たんか): stretcher, litter 架空(かくう): aerial, overhead, fiction, fanciful Kunyomi: か.ける、か.かる Onyomi: カ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 架かる (か.かる), 架ける (か.ける)"	"erect 架 画数9 934 Details Story Dictionary 架 erect Heisig's Add . . . trees. Hint: if you ever played with an ""Erector Set"" or ""Tinker Toys"" as a child, don't pass up the opportunity to relate it to this kanji's key word and the element for trees. Koohii #1 Instant wood. Just add Viagra. Koohii #2 I´m not sure I know about erector sets or tinker toys but I do know about jenga. You play by taking wooden pieces from the middle of a wooden tower and adding them to the top. In this way you erect a very unstable structure. Primitives erect, add, power, muscle, arnold, mouth, tree, wood 担架(たんか): stretcher, litter 架空(かくう): aerial, overhead, fiction, fanciful Kunyomi: か.ける、か.かる Onyomi: カ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 架かる (か.かる), 架ける (か.ける)"
"armpit Details Story Dictionary 脇 armpit Heisig's Part of the body . . . muscles (three of which give us ""triceps"" or ""muscles on top of muscles""). You will want to keep the kanji distinct from the one that follows by paying attention to the positioning of the elements. Koohii #1 What part of the body has a very, very, very powerful smell? The armpit, of course! Koohii #2 (no important on yomi) The part of Conan´s body that is three times more effective at defeating foes than his muscles are his stinky ARMPITs. [Note: Typically, when the flesh primitive is on the left side it refers to a body part - this helps distinguish in from threaten (#871)]. Primitives armpit, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, triceps, power, muscle, arnold, power3, muscle3, arnold3 脇(わき): side Kunyomi: わき、わけ Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 脇 (わき)"	"armpit 脇 画数10 935 Details Story Dictionary 脇 armpit Heisig's Part of the body . . . muscles (three of which give us ""triceps"" or ""muscles on top of muscles""). You will want to keep the kanji distinct from the one that follows by paying attention to the positioning of the elements. Koohii #1 What part of the body has a very, very, very powerful smell? The armpit, of course! Koohii #2 (no important on yomi) The part of Conan´s body that is three times more effective at defeating foes than his muscles are his stinky ARMPITs. [Note: Typically, when the flesh primitive is on the left side it refers to a body part - this helps distinguish in from threaten (#871)]. Primitives armpit, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, triceps, power, muscle, arnold, power3, muscle3, arnold3 脇(わき): side Kunyomi: わき、わけ Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 脇 (わき)"
threaten Details Story Dictionary 脅 threaten Heisig's Triceps . . . part of the body. Koohii #1 Compare the primitive positions of armpit (#870) and threaten (#871). When your triceps rest alongside your body, they fit snugly against your armpit. When you hold them above your body, however, your posture becomes quite threatening. Koohii #2 Don´t threaten a warewolf. He´s three times as powerful ON a full moon.　RTK2:　キョウ　脅迫　きょうはく (blackmail)…　Pure Group:　協872. Primitives threaten, triceps, power, muscle, arnold, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, power3, muscle3, arnold3 脅かす(おどかす): to threaten, to coerce 脅す(おどす): to threaten, to menace 脅迫(きょうはく): threat, menace, coercion, terrorism Kunyomi: おびや.かす、おど.す、おど.かす Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 脅かす (おど.かす), 脅す (おど.す), 脅かす (おびや.かす)	threaten 脅 画数10 936 Details Story Dictionary 脅 threaten Heisig's Triceps . . . part of the body. Koohii #1 Compare the primitive positions of armpit (#870) and threaten (#871). When your triceps rest alongside your body, they fit snugly against your armpit. When you hold them above your body, however, your posture becomes quite threatening. Koohii #2 Don´t threaten a warewolf. He´s three times as powerful ON a full moon.　RTK2:　キョウ　脅迫　きょうはく (blackmail)…　Pure Group:　協872. Primitives threaten, triceps, power, muscle, arnold, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, power3, muscle3, arnold3 脅かす(おどかす): to threaten, to coerce 脅す(おどす): to threaten, to menace 脅迫(きょうはく): threat, menace, coercion, terrorism Kunyomi: おびや.かす、おど.す、おど.かす Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 脅かす (おど.かす), 脅す (おど.す), 脅かす (おびや.かす)
co- Details Story Dictionary 協 co- My Story *Ten* loners vs 3 *strong* dudes cooperating, I know who is gonna win Koohii #1 The nurse says : “If you co-operate, that needle (syringe) in your triceps won´t hurt”. Note: both co- and cooperate are meanings for this kanji. Koohii #2 Co-operation: 3 persons can have the power of ten if they co-operate. Primitives co-, ten, needle, triceps, power, muscle, arnold, power3, muscle3, arnold3 協会(きょうかい): association, society, organization 協議(きょうぎ): conference, consultation, discussion, negotiation 協調(きょうちょう): co-operation, conciliation, harmony, firm (market) tone 協定(きょうてい): arrangement, pact, agreement 妥協(だきょう): compromise, giving in 協力(きょうりょく): cooperation, collaboration Kunyomi: Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	co- 協 画数8 937 Details Story Dictionary 協 co- My Story *Ten* loners vs 3 *strong* dudes cooperating, I know who is gonna win Koohii #1 The nurse says : “If you co-operate, that needle (syringe) in your triceps won´t hurt”. Note: both co- and cooperate are meanings for this kanji. Koohii #2 Co-operation: 3 persons can have the power of ten if they co-operate. Primitives co-, ten, needle, triceps, power, muscle, arnold, power3, muscle3, arnold3 協会(きょうかい): association, society, organization 協議(きょうぎ): conference, consultation, discussion, negotiation 協調(きょうちょう): co-operation, conciliation, harmony, firm (market) tone 協定(きょうてい): arrangement, pact, agreement 妥協(だきょう): compromise, giving in 協力(きょうりょく): cooperation, collaboration Kunyomi: Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
going Details Story Dictionary 行 going Heisig's By joining the top four strokes, you should get a picture of the front current of a river, the stream trailing behind. Hence the character for going. * As a primitive, this character has two forms. Reduced to the left side only, it can mean a column, going, or a line of something or other. When the middle is opened up to make room for other elements, it means a boulevard. Koohii #1 I use The Flash for for this primitive; a superhero who is always going very fast. Koohii #2 To me, this looks like a bridge going over a body of water, being supported by columns underneath it. Being that I live near the ocean, I see tourists and vacationers coming and going constantly on the bridge. Because the bridge is so long, it forms an arc to support the structural integrity. You can see that arc here. Primitives going, boulevard, going 行き(いき): going 行き違い(いきちがい): misunderstanding, estrangement, disagreement, crossing without meeting, going astray 行き成り(いきなり): suddenly 行く(いく): to go 移行(いこう): switching over to 売れ行き(うれゆき): sales 行い(おこない): deed, conduct, behavior, action, asceticism 行う(おこなう): to perform, to do, to conduct oneself, to carry out 慣行(かんこう): customary practice, habit, traditional event 刊行(かんこう): publication, issue 行(ぎょう): line, row, verse 強行(きょうこう): forcing, enforcement 行政(ぎょうせい): administration 決行(けっこう): doing (with resolve), carrying out (i.e. a plan) 現行(げんこう): present, current, in operation 行為(こうい): act, deed, conduct 行員(こういん): bank clerk 行進(こうしん): march, parade 施行(しぎょう): execution, enforcing, carrying out 修行(しゅうぎょう): pursuit of knowledge, studying, learning, training, ascetic practice, discipline 徐行(じょこう): going slowly 進行(しんこう): advance 先行(せんこう): preceding, going first 走行(そうこう): running a wheeled vehicle (e.g. car), traveling 流行(はやり): fashionable, fad, in vogue, prevailing 非行(ひこう): delinquency, misconduct 平行(へいこう): (going) side by side, concurrent, abreast, at the same time, occurring together, parallel, parallelism 夜行(やぎょう): walking around at night, night train, night travel 行儀(ぎょうぎ): manners 行事(ぎょうじ): event, function 行列(ぎょうれつ): line, procession, matrix (mathematics) 孝行(こうこう): filial piety 行動(こうどう): action, conduct, behaviour, mobilization 実行(じっこう): practice, performance, realization, execution (e.g. program) 通行(つうこう): passage, passing 発行(はっこう): issue (publications) 流行る(はやる): flourish, thrive, be popular, come into fashion 飛行(ひこう): flying, flight, aviation 並行(へいこう): (going) side by side, concurrent, abreast, at the same time, occurring together, parallel, parallelism 夜行(やこう): walking around at night, night train, night travel 流行(りゅうこう): fashionable, fad, in vogue, prevailing 行う(おこなう): do, act 急行(きゅうこう): express train 飛行場(ひこうじょう): airfield, airport 銀行(ぎんこう): bank 飛行機(ひこうき): airplane 旅行(りょこう): travel, trip Kunyomi: い.く、ゆ.く、-ゆ.き、-ゆき、-い.き、-いき、おこな.う、おこ.なう Onyomi: コウ、ギョウ、アン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 行進 (こうしん), 行為 (こうい), 旅行 (りょこう), 行列 (ぎょうれつ), 行政 (ぎょうせい), 修行 (しゅぎょう), 行く (い.く), 行う (おこな.う), 行く (ゆ.く)	going 行 画数6 938 Details Story Dictionary 行 going Heisig's By joining the top four strokes, you should get a picture of the front current of a river, the stream trailing behind. Hence the character for going. * As a primitive, this character has two forms. Reduced to the left side only, it can mean a column, going, or a line of something or other. When the middle is opened up to make room for other elements, it means a boulevard. Koohii #1 I use The Flash for for this primitive; a superhero who is always going very fast. Koohii #2 To me, this looks like a bridge going over a body of water, being supported by columns underneath it. Being that I live near the ocean, I see tourists and vacationers coming and going constantly on the bridge. Because the bridge is so long, it forms an arc to support the structural integrity. You can see that arc here. Primitives going, boulevard, going 行き(いき): going 行き違い(いきちがい): misunderstanding, estrangement, disagreement, crossing without meeting, going astray 行き成り(いきなり): suddenly 行く(いく): to go 移行(いこう): switching over to 売れ行き(うれゆき): sales 行い(おこない): deed, conduct, behavior, action, asceticism 行う(おこなう): to perform, to do, to conduct oneself, to carry out 慣行(かんこう): customary practice, habit, traditional event 刊行(かんこう): publication, issue 行(ぎょう): line, row, verse 強行(きょうこう): forcing, enforcement 行政(ぎょうせい): administration 決行(けっこう): doing (with resolve), carrying out (i.e. a plan) 現行(げんこう): present, current, in operation 行為(こうい): act, deed, conduct 行員(こういん): bank clerk 行進(こうしん): march, parade 施行(しぎょう): execution, enforcing, carrying out 修行(しゅうぎょう): pursuit of knowledge, studying, learning, training, ascetic practice, discipline 徐行(じょこう): going slowly 進行(しんこう): advance 先行(せんこう): preceding, going first 走行(そうこう): running a wheeled vehicle (e.g. car), traveling 流行(はやり): fashionable, fad, in vogue, prevailing 非行(ひこう): delinquency, misconduct 平行(へいこう): (going) side by side, concurrent, abreast, at the same time, occurring together, parallel, parallelism 夜行(やぎょう): walking around at night, night train, night travel 行儀(ぎょうぎ): manners 行事(ぎょうじ): event, function 行列(ぎょうれつ): line, procession, matrix (mathematics) 孝行(こうこう): filial piety 行動(こうどう): action, conduct, behaviour, mobilization 実行(じっこう): practice, performance, realization, execution (e.g. program) 通行(つうこう): passage, passing 発行(はっこう): issue (publications) 流行る(はやる): flourish, thrive, be popular, come into fashion 飛行(ひこう): flying, flight, aviation 並行(へいこう): (going) side by side, concurrent, abreast, at the same time, occurring together, parallel, parallelism 夜行(やこう): walking around at night, night train, night travel 流行(りゅうこう): fashionable, fad, in vogue, prevailing 行う(おこなう): do, act 急行(きゅうこう): express train 飛行場(ひこうじょう): airfield, airport 銀行(ぎんこう): bank 飛行機(ひこうき): airplane 旅行(りょこう): travel, trip Kunyomi: い.く、ゆ.く、-ゆ.き、-ゆき、-い.き、-いき、おこな.う、おこ.なう Onyomi: コウ、ギョウ、アン Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 行進 (こうしん), 行為 (こうい), 旅行 (りょこう), 行列 (ぎょうれつ), 行政 (ぎょうせい), 修行 (しゅぎょう), 行く (い.く), 行う (おこな.う), 行く (ゆ.く)
regulation (law) / rhythm Details Story Dictionary 律 regulation (law) / rhythm My Story [GO + Brush] To be a #law#yer, you need to *go* and *brush* up your people skills Koohii #1 The calligrapher´s brush is moving down a column of a script, in rhythm with his meditation. Koohii #2 The army COLUMN walked to the RHYTHM made by the drummer using a cool BRUSH like drum stick. Picturing the brush as a drum stick is not difficult if you´ve seen such a thing in jazz videos. Primitives rhythm, Nelson, column, going, line, brush 一律(いちりつ): evenness, uniformity, monotony, equality 規律(きりつ): order, rules, law 法律(ほうりつ): law Kunyomi: Onyomi: リツ、リチ、レツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 律動 (りつどう), 規律 (きりつ), 法律 (ほうりつ)	regulation (law) / rhythm 律 画数9 939 Details Story Dictionary 律 regulation (law) / rhythm My Story [GO + Brush] To be a #law#yer, you need to *go* and *brush* up your people skills Koohii #1 The calligrapher´s brush is moving down a column of a script, in rhythm with his meditation. Koohii #2 The army COLUMN walked to the RHYTHM made by the drummer using a cool BRUSH like drum stick. Picturing the brush as a drum stick is not difficult if you´ve seen such a thing in jazz videos. Primitives rhythm, Nelson, column, going, line, brush 一律(いちりつ): evenness, uniformity, monotony, equality 規律(きりつ): order, rules, law 法律(ほうりつ): law Kunyomi: Onyomi: リツ、リチ、レツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 律動 (りつどう), 規律 (きりつ), 法律 (ほうりつ)
restore Details Story Dictionary 復 restore Heisig's Going . . . double back. Koohii #1 Before going all the way to the Boss in a Final Fantasy game, you should probably double back to save at a restore point. Koohii #2 The column of soldiers has to double back to restore the peace in the village they just left. Primitives restore, Nelson, column, going, line, fold back, double back, reclining, lying down, sun, day, walking legs 復旧(ふくきゅう): restoration, restitution, rehabilitation 復活(ふっかつ): revival (e.g. musical), restoration 復興(ふっこう): revival, renaissance, reconstruction 往復(おうふく): round trip, coming and going, return ticket 回復(かいふく): recovery (from illness), improvement, rehabilitation, restoration 復習(ふくしゅう): review Kunyomi: また Onyomi: フク Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	restore 復 画数12 940 Details Story Dictionary 復 restore Heisig's Going . . . double back. Koohii #1 Before going all the way to the Boss in a Final Fantasy game, you should probably double back to save at a restore point. Koohii #2 The column of soldiers has to double back to restore the peace in the village they just left. Primitives restore, Nelson, column, going, line, fold back, double back, reclining, lying down, sun, day, walking legs 復旧(ふくきゅう): restoration, restitution, rehabilitation 復活(ふっかつ): revival (e.g. musical), restoration 復興(ふっこう): revival, renaissance, reconstruction 往復(おうふく): round trip, coming and going, return ticket 回復(かいふく): recovery (from illness), improvement, rehabilitation, restoration 復習(ふくしゅう): review Kunyomi: また Onyomi: フク Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
gain Details Story Dictionary 得 gain My Story Go to the temple of the sun to obtain a blessing! Koohii #1 To gain more knowledge of what´s goin on in the world I´m reading column after column of articles in the newspapers, and it takes so much time I´m glued to it till nightbreak. Koohii #2 Imagine fat people......they avoid going outside to exercise and stay glued to their TV set until nightbreak....so of course they gain weight. Primitives gain, Nelson, column, going, line, bill posters, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor, glue 獲得(かくとく): acquisition, possession 心得(こころえ): knowledge, information 所得(しょとく): income, earnings 説得(せっとく): persuasion 得点(とくてん): score, points made, marks obtained, runs 止むを得ない(やむをえない): cannot be helped, unavoidable 得る(うる): obtain, acquire 得る(える): get, gain, win 心得る(こころえる): be informed, have thorough knowledge 損得(そんとく): loss and gain, advantage and disadvantage 得意(とくい): pride, triumph, prosperity, one´s strong point, one´s forte, one´s specialty, customer, client 納得(なっとく): consent, assent, understanding, agreement, comprehension, grasp Kunyomi: え.る、う.る Onyomi: トク Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 得る (う.る), 得る (え.る)	gain 得 画数11 941 Details Story Dictionary 得 gain My Story Go to the temple of the sun to obtain a blessing! Koohii #1 To gain more knowledge of what´s goin on in the world I´m reading column after column of articles in the newspapers, and it takes so much time I´m glued to it till nightbreak. Koohii #2 Imagine fat people......they avoid going outside to exercise and stay glued to their TV set until nightbreak....so of course they gain weight. Primitives gain, Nelson, column, going, line, bill posters, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor, glue 獲得(かくとく): acquisition, possession 心得(こころえ): knowledge, information 所得(しょとく): income, earnings 説得(せっとく): persuasion 得点(とくてん): score, points made, marks obtained, runs 止むを得ない(やむをえない): cannot be helped, unavoidable 得る(うる): obtain, acquire 得る(える): get, gain, win 心得る(こころえる): be informed, have thorough knowledge 損得(そんとく): loss and gain, advantage and disadvantage 得意(とくい): pride, triumph, prosperity, one´s strong point, one´s forte, one´s specialty, customer, client 納得(なっとく): consent, assent, understanding, agreement, comprehension, grasp Kunyomi: え.る、う.る Onyomi: トク Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 得る (う.る), 得る (え.る)
"accompany Details Story Dictionary 従 accompany Heisig's Column . . . animal horns . . . mending. Koohii #1 The line of viking soldiers is always accompanied by a horn mending specialist. Koohii #2 I´m going to accompany the horny girl to her room so I can ""mend"" her. Primitives accompany, Nelson, column, going, line, horns, mend 従業員(じゅうぎょういん): employee, worker 従事(じゅうじ): engaging, pursuing, following 従来(じゅうらい): up to now, so far, traditional 従兄弟(いとこ): male cousin 従姉妹(いとこ): female cousin 従う(したがう): abide (by the rules), obey, follow, accompany Kunyomi: したが.う、したが.える、より Onyomi: ジュウ、ショウ、ジュ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 従事 (じゅうじ), 従順 (じゅうじゅん), 服従 (ふくじゅう), 従容 (しょうよう), 従う (したが.う), 従える (したが.える)"	"accompany 従 画数10 942 Details Story Dictionary 従 accompany Heisig's Column . . . animal horns . . . mending. Koohii #1 The line of viking soldiers is always accompanied by a horn mending specialist. Koohii #2 I´m going to accompany the horny girl to her room so I can ""mend"" her. Primitives accompany, Nelson, column, going, line, horns, mend 従業員(じゅうぎょういん): employee, worker 従事(じゅうじ): engaging, pursuing, following 従来(じゅうらい): up to now, so far, traditional 従兄弟(いとこ): male cousin 従姉妹(いとこ): female cousin 従う(したがう): abide (by the rules), obey, follow, accompany Kunyomi: したが.う、したが.える、より Onyomi: ジュウ、ショウ、ジュ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 従事 (じゅうじ), 従順 (じゅうじゅん), 服従 (ふくじゅう), 従容 (しょうよう), 従う (したが.う), 従える (したが.える)"
junior Details Story Dictionary 徒 junior Heisig's Line . . . run. Koohii #1 Junior is GOING to RUN the family business one day... Koohii #2 The junior employee is always RUNNING around GOING here and there for his superiors. Primitives junior, Nelson, column, going, line, run, soil, dirt, ground, mend 徒歩(とほ): walking, going on foot 生徒(せいと): pupil Kunyomi: いたずら、あだ Onyomi: ト Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	junior 徒 画数10 943 Details Story Dictionary 徒 junior Heisig's Line . . . run. Koohii #1 Junior is GOING to RUN the family business one day... Koohii #2 The junior employee is always RUNNING around GOING here and there for his superiors. Primitives junior, Nelson, column, going, line, run, soil, dirt, ground, mend 徒歩(とほ): walking, going on foot 生徒(せいと): pupil Kunyomi: いたずら、あだ Onyomi: ト Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
wait Details Story Dictionary 待 wait Heisig's Line . . . Buddhist temple. Koohii #1 A line queued up outside the Buddhist temple, waiting to see the shrine on New Year´s Day. Koohii #2 The COLUMNS of this TEMPLE are a well-know meeting spot. You can always see someone WAITING there. Primitives wait, Nelson, column, going, line, Buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue 待遇(たいぐう): treatment, reception 待望(たいぼう): expectant waiting 待ち合わせ(まちあわせ): appointment 待ち遠しい(まちどおしい): looking forward to 待ち望む(まちのぞむ): to look anxiously for, to wait eagerly for 期待(きたい): expectation, anticipation, hope 待合室(まちあいしつ): waiting room 待ち合わせる(まちあわせる): rendezvous, meet at a prearranged place and time 招待(しょうたい): invite 待つ(まつ): wait Kunyomi: ま.つ、-ま.ち Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 待つ (ま.つ)	wait 待 画数9 944 Details Story Dictionary 待 wait Heisig's Line . . . Buddhist temple. Koohii #1 A line queued up outside the Buddhist temple, waiting to see the shrine on New Year´s Day. Koohii #2 The COLUMNS of this TEMPLE are a well-know meeting spot. You can always see someone WAITING there. Primitives wait, Nelson, column, going, line, Buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue 待遇(たいぐう): treatment, reception 待望(たいぼう): expectant waiting 待ち合わせ(まちあわせ): appointment 待ち遠しい(まちどおしい): looking forward to 待ち望む(まちのぞむ): to look anxiously for, to wait eagerly for 期待(きたい): expectation, anticipation, hope 待合室(まちあいしつ): waiting room 待ち合わせる(まちあわせる): rendezvous, meet at a prearranged place and time 招待(しょうたい): invite 待つ(まつ): wait Kunyomi: ま.つ、-ま.ち Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 待つ (ま.つ)
journey Details Story Dictionary 往 journey Heisig's Column . . . candlestick. This character has the special sense of journeying to someplace or other. Koohii #1 In Medieval Japan, going to see your lord was often a long journey. Koohii #2 The fellowship of the ring is on a long journey through the depths of Khaz Modan. Imagine they walk through the hall of pillars, with only light being from their own candlesticks that. Soon they will meet much more light than they would ever want to... Primitives journey, Nelson, column, going, line, candlestick, lord, drop, king, jewel, ball 往復(おうふく): round trip, coming and going, return ticket Kunyomi: い.く、いにしえ、さき.に、ゆ.く Onyomi: オウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	journey 往 画数8 945 Details Story Dictionary 往 journey Heisig's Column . . . candlestick. This character has the special sense of journeying to someplace or other. Koohii #1 In Medieval Japan, going to see your lord was often a long journey. Koohii #2 The fellowship of the ring is on a long journey through the depths of Khaz Modan. Imagine they walk through the hall of pillars, with only light being from their own candlesticks that. Soon they will meet much more light than they would ever want to... Primitives journey, Nelson, column, going, line, candlestick, lord, drop, king, jewel, ball 往復(おうふく): round trip, coming and going, return ticket Kunyomi: い.く、いにしえ、さき.に、ゆ.く Onyomi: オウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
subjugate Details Story Dictionary 征 subjugate Heisig's Column . . . correct. Koohii #1 America seeks to GO and CORRECT other nations. But really what they do is subjugate them... Koohii #2 To subjugate is to have somebody stand still and stiff as a column and behave one hundred percent correctly. Primitives subjugate, Nelson, column, going, line, correct, one, ceiling, stop, footprint 征服(せいふく): conquest, subjugation, overcoming Kunyomi: Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	subjugate 征 画数8 946 Details Story Dictionary 征 subjugate Heisig's Column . . . correct. Koohii #1 America seeks to GO and CORRECT other nations. But really what they do is subjugate them... Koohii #2 To subjugate is to have somebody stand still and stiff as a column and behave one hundred percent correctly. Primitives subjugate, Nelson, column, going, line, correct, one, ceiling, stop, footprint 征服(せいふく): conquest, subjugation, overcoming Kunyomi: Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"diameter Details Story Dictionary 径 diameter Heisig's Line . . . spool. Koohii #1 Scientists recently measured the diameter of Earth by drilling a deep hole and dropping a line of thread off a humongous spool until it got to the other side. Koohii #2 Suggestion: Replace ""spool"" with ""toilet paper/roll"". Reasons: (1) Toilet paper/roll usually comes on a spool. (2) Toilet paper is used to clean the soil off your crotch. Story: Measure the diameter of a column (maybe Nelson´s Column in London?) using a roll of toilet paper. Spool also appears in stalk (#715), suspicious (#716), lightly (#717), sutra (#1360). Primitives diameter, Nelson, column, going, line, spool, clod, toilet paper, crotch, soil, dirt, ground 直径(ちょっけい): diameter 半径(はんけい): radius Kunyomi: みち、こみち、さしわたし、ただちに Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"diameter 径 画数8 947 Details Story Dictionary 径 diameter Heisig's Line . . . spool. Koohii #1 Scientists recently measured the diameter of Earth by drilling a deep hole and dropping a line of thread off a humongous spool until it got to the other side. Koohii #2 Suggestion: Replace ""spool"" with ""toilet paper/roll"". Reasons: (1) Toilet paper/roll usually comes on a spool. (2) Toilet paper is used to clean the soil off your crotch. Story: Measure the diameter of a column (maybe Nelson´s Column in London?) using a roll of toilet paper. Spool also appears in stalk (#715), suspicious (#716), lightly (#717), sutra (#1360). Primitives diameter, Nelson, column, going, line, spool, clod, toilet paper, crotch, soil, dirt, ground 直径(ちょっけい): diameter 半径(はんけい): radius Kunyomi: みち、こみち、さしわたし、ただちに Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
he Details Story Dictionary 彼 he Heisig's Going . . . pelt. This kanji refers to the third person singular personal pronoun, generally in its masculine form. Koohii #1 What´s the main difference between a he and a she? The he has a column covered in a pelt... a penis. Badum-ching. Koohii #2 The ultimate he-man is the Neanderthal cave man. His club is as big as a pillar (column), and he wears a ragged pelt as his only clothing. To remember the column, imagine the cave man resting the club vertically like a column when not in use. Primitives he, Nelson, column, going, line, pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook 彼処(あそこ): (uk) there, over there, that place, (X) (col) genitals 彼方此方(あちこち): here and there 彼方(あちら): there, yonder, that 彼方此方(あちらこちら): here and there 彼此(あれこれ): one thing or another, this and that, this or that 彼等(かれら): they (usually male) 彼女(かのじょ): she 彼(かれ): he 彼ら(かれら): they Kunyomi: かれ、かの、か.の Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 彼 (かれ)	he 彼 画数8 948 Details Story Dictionary 彼 he Heisig's Going . . . pelt. This kanji refers to the third person singular personal pronoun, generally in its masculine form. Koohii #1 What´s the main difference between a he and a she? The he has a column covered in a pelt... a penis. Badum-ching. Koohii #2 The ultimate he-man is the Neanderthal cave man. His club is as big as a pillar (column), and he wears a ragged pelt as his only clothing. To remember the column, imagine the cave man resting the club vertically like a column when not in use. Primitives he, Nelson, column, going, line, pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook 彼処(あそこ): (uk) there, over there, that place, (X) (col) genitals 彼方此方(あちこち): here and there 彼方(あちら): there, yonder, that 彼方此方(あちらこちら): here and there 彼此(あれこれ): one thing or another, this and that, this or that 彼等(かれら): they (usually male) 彼女(かのじょ): she 彼(かれ): he 彼ら(かれら): they Kunyomi: かれ、かの、か.の Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 彼 (かれ)
duty Details Story Dictionary 役 duty My Story [Go {彳} + Missile] It is your duty to *go* stop that *missile* Koohii #1 Japanese kamikaze pilots (and the American from Dr. Strangelove) are so devoted to their duty that they go with their missiles. Koohii #2 Imagine those poor saps in charge of nuclear silos, responsible for ICBMS, those towering column missiles. When the order comes they must decide whether to obey their concience or do their duty and damn the world to atomic annihilation. Primitives duty, Nelson, column, going, line, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 役(えき): war, campaign, battle 重役(おもやく): heavy responsibilities, director 役職(やくしょく): post, managerial position, official position 役立つ(やくだつ): to be useful, to be helpful, to serve the purpose 役場(やくば): town hall 重役(じゅうやく): heavy responsibilities, director 主役(しゅやく): leading part, leading actor or actress 役(やく): use, service, role, position 役者(やくしゃ): actor, actress 役所(やくしょ): government office, public office 役人(やくにん): government official 役目(やくめ): duty, business 役割(やくわり): part, assigning (allotment of) parts, role, duties 役に立つ(やくにたつ): useful Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヤク、エキ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 役所 (やくしょ), 役目 (やくめ), 荷役 (かやく)	duty 役 画数7 949 Details Story Dictionary 役 duty My Story [Go {彳} + Missile] It is your duty to *go* stop that *missile* Koohii #1 Japanese kamikaze pilots (and the American from Dr. Strangelove) are so devoted to their duty that they go with their missiles. Koohii #2 Imagine those poor saps in charge of nuclear silos, responsible for ICBMS, those towering column missiles. When the order comes they must decide whether to obey their concience or do their duty and damn the world to atomic annihilation. Primitives duty, Nelson, column, going, line, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 役(えき): war, campaign, battle 重役(おもやく): heavy responsibilities, director 役職(やくしょく): post, managerial position, official position 役立つ(やくだつ): to be useful, to be helpful, to serve the purpose 役場(やくば): town hall 重役(じゅうやく): heavy responsibilities, director 主役(しゅやく): leading part, leading actor or actress 役(やく): use, service, role, position 役者(やくしゃ): actor, actress 役所(やくしょ): government office, public office 役人(やくにん): government official 役目(やくめ): duty, business 役割(やくわり): part, assigning (allotment of) parts, role, duties 役に立つ(やくにたつ): useful Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヤク、エキ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 役所 (やくしょ), 役目 (やくめ), 荷役 (かやく)
benevolence Details Story Dictionary 徳 benevolence Heisig's Going . . . needle . . . eye . . . heart. Refer back now to the note in frame 890. Koohii #1 Hearkening back to the kanji for LISTEN... Benevolence is a good listener who is willing to go the distance to help. Koohii #2 In a rare act of benevolence, the Sparten column removes the needle from the cyclops´s eye, and he repays them by eating their hearts. Primitives benevolence, Nelson, column, going, line, stethoscope, camel, ten, needle, eye, cross-eyed, net, heart 道徳(どうとく): morals Kunyomi: Onyomi: トク Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	benevolence 徳 画数14 950 Details Story Dictionary 徳 benevolence Heisig's Going . . . needle . . . eye . . . heart. Refer back now to the note in frame 890. Koohii #1 Hearkening back to the kanji for LISTEN... Benevolence is a good listener who is willing to go the distance to help. Koohii #2 In a rare act of benevolence, the Sparten column removes the needle from the cyclops´s eye, and he repays them by eating their hearts. Primitives benevolence, Nelson, column, going, line, stethoscope, camel, ten, needle, eye, cross-eyed, net, heart 道徳(どうとく): morals Kunyomi: Onyomi: トク Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
penetrate Details Story Dictionary 徹 penetrate Heisig's Line . . . bring up . . . taskmaster. Koohii #1 The taskmistress in a moment of weakness allowed the man´s column to penetrate her. As punishment he was made to bring up their infant. Koohii #2 Ha! In this frame, a bunch of taskmasters are lined up to penetrate the kids they raise/bring up! I´m thinking of some priests and choir boys. Primitives penetrate, Nelson, column, going, line, borstal, bring up, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, taskmaster 徹する(てっする): to sink in, to penetrate, to devote oneself, to believe in, to go through, to do intently and exclusively 徹底(てってい): thoroughness, completeness 徹夜(てつや): all night, all-night vigil, sleepless night Kunyomi: Onyomi: テツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	penetrate 徹 画数15 951 Details Story Dictionary 徹 penetrate Heisig's Line . . . bring up . . . taskmaster. Koohii #1 The taskmistress in a moment of weakness allowed the man´s column to penetrate her. As punishment he was made to bring up their infant. Koohii #2 Ha! In this frame, a bunch of taskmasters are lined up to penetrate the kids they raise/bring up! I´m thinking of some priests and choir boys. Primitives penetrate, Nelson, column, going, line, borstal, bring up, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, taskmaster 徹する(てっする): to sink in, to penetrate, to devote oneself, to believe in, to go through, to do intently and exclusively 徹底(てってい): thoroughness, completeness 徹夜(てつや): all night, all-night vigil, sleepless night Kunyomi: Onyomi: テツ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
indications Details Story Dictionary 徴 indications Heisig's Line . . . mountain . . . king . . . taskmaster. Koohii #1 If you see a column of kings being marched up the mountain under a taskmaster´s whip... indications are, there has been a coup. Koohii #2 All indications are that the taskmaster´s son is going to be king of the mountain soon …　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　チョウ 象徴　しょうちょう(symbol)…　　　　Pure Group:　懲888. Primitives indications, sherpa, Nelson, column, going, line, mountain, king, jewel, ball, taskmaster 象徴(しょうちょう): symbol 徴収(ちょうしゅう): collection, levy 特徴(とくちょう): feature, characteristic Kunyomi: しるし Onyomi: チョウ、チ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	indications 徴 画数14 952 Details Story Dictionary 徴 indications Heisig's Line . . . mountain . . . king . . . taskmaster. Koohii #1 If you see a column of kings being marched up the mountain under a taskmaster´s whip... indications are, there has been a coup. Koohii #2 All indications are that the taskmaster´s son is going to be king of the mountain soon …　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　チョウ 象徴　しょうちょう(symbol)…　　　　Pure Group:　懲888. Primitives indications, sherpa, Nelson, column, going, line, mountain, king, jewel, ball, taskmaster 象徴(しょうちょう): symbol 徴収(ちょうしゅう): collection, levy 特徴(とくちょう): feature, characteristic Kunyomi: しるし Onyomi: チョウ、チ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"penal Details Story Dictionary 懲 penal Heisig's Indications . . . heart. Koohii #1 Penal servitude is served until indications show that one has had a change of heart (learned one´s lesson). Easily confused with punish (#679) and penalty (#833). Concentrate on the reasons behind the penal system (""changing people´s hearts"" here), instead of the penalty itself or the punishment (revenge) aspect. It may help to note that there´s no sword, but a heart :-) (Note: 懲りる = learn from one´s bad experiences). Koohii #2 Judge: You will serve a penal sentence until indications show you have a heart. Primitives penal, indications, sherpa, Nelson, column, going, line, mountain, king, jewel, ball, taskmaster, heart 懲りる(こりる): to learn by experience, to be disgusted with Kunyomi: こ.りる、こ.らす、こ.らしめる Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 懲らしめる (こ.らしめる), 懲らす (こ.らす), 懲りる (こ.りる)"	"penal 懲 画数18 953 Details Story Dictionary 懲 penal Heisig's Indications . . . heart. Koohii #1 Penal servitude is served until indications show that one has had a change of heart (learned one´s lesson). Easily confused with punish (#679) and penalty (#833). Concentrate on the reasons behind the penal system (""changing people´s hearts"" here), instead of the penalty itself or the punishment (revenge) aspect. It may help to note that there´s no sword, but a heart :-) (Note: 懲りる = learn from one´s bad experiences). Koohii #2 Judge: You will serve a penal sentence until indications show you have a heart. Primitives penal, indications, sherpa, Nelson, column, going, line, mountain, king, jewel, ball, taskmaster, heart 懲りる(こりる): to learn by experience, to be disgusted with Kunyomi: こ.りる、こ.らす、こ.らしめる Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 懲らしめる (こ.らしめる), 懲らす (こ.らす), 懲りる (こ.りる)"
"delicate Details Story Dictionary 微 delicate Heisig's Line . . . mountain . . . ceiling . . . human legs . . . taskmaster. Koohii #1 The Column of 300 spartans were in a delicate situation. They had travelled in one line (using only their legs) to the mountain pass to face the fierce Persian task master. Koohii #2 Telling your taskmistress (wife) why you are going mountain climbing without her is a delicate situation... ""For one thing you have such beautiful legs and I don´t want to risk injuring them honey""...　　　　　　RTK2:　ビ　微笑　びしょう(smile)　""delicate laugh"". Primitives delicate, sherpa, Nelson, column, going, line, mountain, one, ceiling, human legs, taskmaster 微か(かすか): faint, dim, weak, indistinct, hazy, poor, wretched 微笑(びしょう): smile 微量(びりょう): minuscule amount, extremely small quantity 微塵(みじん): particle, atom 顕微鏡(けんびきょう): microscope 微妙(びみょう): delicate, subtle 微笑む(ほほえむ): to smile Kunyomi: かす.か Onyomi: ビ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"delicate 微 画数13 954 Details Story Dictionary 微 delicate Heisig's Line . . . mountain . . . ceiling . . . human legs . . . taskmaster. Koohii #1 The Column of 300 spartans were in a delicate situation. They had travelled in one line (using only their legs) to the mountain pass to face the fierce Persian task master. Koohii #2 Telling your taskmistress (wife) why you are going mountain climbing without her is a delicate situation... ""For one thing you have such beautiful legs and I don´t want to risk injuring them honey""...　　　　　　RTK2:　ビ　微笑　びしょう(smile)　""delicate laugh"". Primitives delicate, sherpa, Nelson, column, going, line, mountain, one, ceiling, human legs, taskmaster 微か(かすか): faint, dim, weak, indistinct, hazy, poor, wretched 微笑(びしょう): smile 微量(びりょう): minuscule amount, extremely small quantity 微塵(みじん): particle, atom 顕微鏡(けんびきょう): microscope 微妙(びみょう): delicate, subtle 微笑む(ほほえむ): to smile Kunyomi: かす.か Onyomi: ビ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
boulevard Details Story Dictionary 街 boulevard Heisig's This is the character from which the sense of boulevard mentioned in frame 938 derives. Its elements: boulevard . . . ivy. Koohii #1 The boulevard of boulevards, the Champs Elysées, with the Arc de Triomphe covered in ivy to give the champions a heroes´ welcome. Koohii #2 Specifically... ivy boulevard... think hollywood & vine. Primitives boulevard, going, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, soil2, dirt2, ground2 街(がい): ~street, ~quarters 街道(かいどう): highway 街頭(がいとう): in the street 市街(しがい): urban areas, the streets, town, city 街(まち): street 街角(まちかど): street corner Kunyomi: まち Onyomi: ガイ、カイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 街頭 (がいとう), 市街 (しがい), 商店街 (しょうてんがい), 街 (まち)	boulevard 街 画数12 955 Details Story Dictionary 街 boulevard Heisig's This is the character from which the sense of boulevard mentioned in frame 938 derives. Its elements: boulevard . . . ivy. Koohii #1 The boulevard of boulevards, the Champs Elysées, with the Arc de Triomphe covered in ivy to give the champions a heroes´ welcome. Koohii #2 Specifically... ivy boulevard... think hollywood & vine. Primitives boulevard, going, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, soil2, dirt2, ground2 街(がい): ~street, ~quarters 街道(かいどう): highway 街頭(がいとう): in the street 市街(しがい): urban areas, the streets, town, city 街(まち): street 街角(まちかど): street corner Kunyomi: まち Onyomi: ガイ、カイ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 街頭 (がいとう), 市街 (しがい), 商店街 (しょうてんがい), 街 (まち)
"girder Details Story Dictionary 桁 girder Heisig's Tree . . . going. Koohii #1 Girders are support beams that are nowadays mostly made out of steel. But in the ancient houses that are placed at the boulevard the girders will be made out of wood. Koohii #2 When the wooden girders start to snap, the workmen shout ""Run! Let´s go!"". Primitives girder, tree, wood, going 桁(けた): column, beam, digit Kunyomi: けた Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 桁 (けた)"	"girder 桁 画数10 956 Details Story Dictionary 桁 girder Heisig's Tree . . . going. Koohii #1 Girders are support beams that are nowadays mostly made out of steel. But in the ancient houses that are placed at the boulevard the girders will be made out of wood. Koohii #2 When the wooden girders start to snap, the workmen shout ""Run! Let´s go!"". Primitives girder, tree, wood, going 桁(けた): column, beam, digit Kunyomi: けた Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 桁 (けた)"
equilibrium Details Story Dictionary 衡 equilibrium Heisig's Boulevard . . . bound up . . . brains . . . St. Bernard dog. Koohii #1 To maintain the social equilibrium in a future dystopian society, the brains of citizens are bound up (hypnotized). The government is using mental wave emitting statues shaped like St. Bernard´s dogs put alongside the boulevards. Koohii #2 I think BALANCE is an easier keyword. I was walking down a busy French boulevard when between the rushing traffic I saw the wierdest thing. BALANCING on the central crash barrier was a St. Bernard dog, BALANCING a fish on its nose. As I looked closer, I realised it was a trick; it was holding the fish´s tail in its teeth, and only pretending to BALANCE it. (keeps the position of the elements!). Primitives equilibrium, boulevard, going, bound up, rice field, brains, large, St. Bernard 均衡(きんこう): equilibrium, balance Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	equilibrium 衡 画数16 957 Details Story Dictionary 衡 equilibrium Heisig's Boulevard . . . bound up . . . brains . . . St. Bernard dog. Koohii #1 To maintain the social equilibrium in a future dystopian society, the brains of citizens are bound up (hypnotized). The government is using mental wave emitting statues shaped like St. Bernard´s dogs put alongside the boulevards. Koohii #2 I think BALANCE is an easier keyword. I was walking down a busy French boulevard when between the rushing traffic I saw the wierdest thing. BALANCING on the central crash barrier was a St. Bernard dog, BALANCING a fish on its nose. As I looked closer, I realised it was a trick; it was holding the fish´s tail in its teeth, and only pretending to BALANCE it. (keeps the position of the elements!). Primitives equilibrium, boulevard, going, bound up, rice field, brains, large, St. Bernard 均衡(きんこう): equilibrium, balance Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 25 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"draft Details Story Dictionary 稿 draft My Story [Wheat + Tall/Expensive] Draft beer - made using *wheat* and its hella *expensive* Koohii #1 The first DRAFT of catcher in the rye was actually called ""catcher in the TALL WHEAT""...good thing they changed it. I read it in 高校. Koohii #2 Aliens often draft their plans for invasion by cutting designs among the tall wheat. Primitives draft, wheat, cereal, tall, top hat, mouth, hood, mouth, mouth2 原稿(げんこう): manuscript, copy Kunyomi: わら、したがき Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"draft 稿 画数15 958 Details Story Dictionary 稿 draft My Story [Wheat + Tall/Expensive] Draft beer - made using *wheat* and its hella *expensive* Koohii #1 The first DRAFT of catcher in the rye was actually called ""catcher in the TALL WHEAT""...good thing they changed it. I read it in 高校. Koohii #2 Aliens often draft their plans for invasion by cutting designs among the tall wheat. Primitives draft, wheat, cereal, tall, top hat, mouth, hood, mouth, mouth2 原稿(げんこう): manuscript, copy Kunyomi: わら、したがき Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"earnings Details Story Dictionary 稼 earnings Heisig's Wheat . . . house. Koohii #1 Your earnings allow you to bring home your daily bread (made of wheat, naturally). Koohii #2 Hmm, EARNINGS. Think of the popular saying ""Bringing HOME the bacon"". Here, EARNINGS is the picture ""Bringing HOME the bread(WHEAT) and the bacon (PIG). Primitives earnings, wheat, cereal, house, sow, pig 共稼ぎ(ともかせぎ): working together, (husband and wife) earning a living together 稼ぐ(かせぐ): earn income, to labor Kunyomi: かせ.ぐ Onyomi: カ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 稼ぐ (かせ.ぐ)"	"earnings 稼 画数15 959 Details Story Dictionary 稼 earnings Heisig's Wheat . . . house. Koohii #1 Your earnings allow you to bring home your daily bread (made of wheat, naturally). Koohii #2 Hmm, EARNINGS. Think of the popular saying ""Bringing HOME the bacon"". Here, EARNINGS is the picture ""Bringing HOME the bread(WHEAT) and the bacon (PIG). Primitives earnings, wheat, cereal, house, sow, pig 共稼ぎ(ともかせぎ): working together, (husband and wife) earning a living together 稼ぐ(かせぐ): earn income, to labor Kunyomi: かせ.ぐ Onyomi: カ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 稼ぐ (かせ.ぐ)"
extent Details Story Dictionary 程 extent Heisig's Wheat . . . display. Do not confuse with extremity (Frame 230) or boundary (Frame 523). Koohii #1 The extent to which some people will go to create ´wheat displays´, or as some call them ´crop circles´, is truly amazing. Koohii #2 The wheat crop has come in, and the mouth of the king is gobbling it all up. Everyone is waiting to see... to what extent will the king manage to eat it this year? Primitives extent, wheat, cereal, display, mouth, king, jewel, ball 左程(さほど): (not) very, (not) much 其れ程(それほど): to that degree, extent 程度(ていど): degree, amount, grade, standard, of the order of (following a number) 中程(なかほど): middle, midway 程(ほど): limit, the more ~ the more 余程(よっぽど): very, greatly, much, to a large extent, quite 課程(かてい): course, curriculum 過程(かてい): a process 先程(さきほど): some time ago 日程(にってい): agenda 方程式(ほうていしき): equation Kunyomi: ほど、-ほど Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 程 (ほど)	extent 程 画数12 960 Details Story Dictionary 程 extent Heisig's Wheat . . . display. Do not confuse with extremity (Frame 230) or boundary (Frame 523). Koohii #1 The extent to which some people will go to create ´wheat displays´, or as some call them ´crop circles´, is truly amazing. Koohii #2 The wheat crop has come in, and the mouth of the king is gobbling it all up. Everyone is waiting to see... to what extent will the king manage to eat it this year? Primitives extent, wheat, cereal, display, mouth, king, jewel, ball 左程(さほど): (not) very, (not) much 其れ程(それほど): to that degree, extent 程度(ていど): degree, amount, grade, standard, of the order of (following a number) 中程(なかほど): middle, midway 程(ほど): limit, the more ~ the more 余程(よっぽど): very, greatly, much, to a large extent, quite 課程(かてい): course, curriculum 過程(かてい): a process 先程(さきほど): some time ago 日程(にってい): agenda 方程式(ほうていしき): equation Kunyomi: ほど、-ほど Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 程 (ほど)
tax Details Story Dictionary 税 tax Heisig's Wheat . . . devil. Koohii #1 Nobody likes the tax man, so here it is only fitting that the person who comes over to take some of your wheat is depicted here as a devil. Keep in mind that in feudal societies there was no kind of money to speak of, so taxes were paid by serfs in wheat to the devils who came over to keep them poor. Koohii #2 This is an easy one. Taxes is like the devil taking away your hard earned wheat. Primitives tax, wheat, cereal, devil, horns, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs 関税(かんぜい): customs, duty, tariff 税務署(ぜいむしょ): tax office 課税(かぜい): taxation 税(ぜい): tax 税関(ぜいかん): customs house 税金(ぜいきん): tax, duty 免税(めんぜい): tax exemption Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゼイ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	tax 税 画数12 961 Details Story Dictionary 税 tax Heisig's Wheat . . . devil. Koohii #1 Nobody likes the tax man, so here it is only fitting that the person who comes over to take some of your wheat is depicted here as a devil. Keep in mind that in feudal societies there was no kind of money to speak of, so taxes were paid by serfs in wheat to the devils who came over to keep them poor. Koohii #2 This is an easy one. Taxes is like the devil taking away your hard earned wheat. Primitives tax, wheat, cereal, devil, horns, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs 関税(かんぜい): customs, duty, tariff 税務署(ぜいむしょ): tax office 課税(かぜい): taxation 税(ぜい): tax 税関(ぜいかん): customs house 税金(ぜいきん): tax, duty 免税(めんぜい): tax exemption Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゼイ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
immature Details Story Dictionary 稚 immature Heisig's Wheat . . . turkey. Koohii #1 I can´t believe I brought you to the fanciest restaurant in town and you asked for turkey on wheat...how immature is that?! Koohii #2 Immature turkeys are stuffed with wheat to make it look bigger. Primitives immature, wheat, cereal, turkey 幼稚(ようち): infancy, childish, infantile 幼稚園(ようちえん): kindergarten Kunyomi: いとけない、おさない、おくて、おでる Onyomi: チ、ジ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	immature 稚 画数13 962 Details Story Dictionary 稚 immature Heisig's Wheat . . . turkey. Koohii #1 I can´t believe I brought you to the fanciest restaurant in town and you asked for turkey on wheat...how immature is that?! Koohii #2 Immature turkeys are stuffed with wheat to make it look bigger. Primitives immature, wheat, cereal, turkey 幼稚(ようち): infancy, childish, infantile 幼稚園(ようちえん): kindergarten Kunyomi: いとけない、おさない、おくて、おでる Onyomi: チ、ジ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
harmony Details Story Dictionary 和 harmony Heisig's Wheat . . . mouth. Koohii #1 The first step to harmony is having enough wheat to feed every mouth in the world. Once we are all fed it is easier to get a long in harmony. Koohii #2 People who live in harmony with nature live in the country. they are yokels or hillbillys. See Billy-bob sitting on the porch in their denhim dungarees a sheaf of wheat, sticking from their mouth. Primitives harmony, wheat, cereal, mouth 温和(おんわ): gentle, mild, moderate 緩和(かんわ): relief, mitigation 共和(きょうわ): republicanism, cooperation 中和(ちゅうわ): neutralize, counteract 調和(ちょうわ): harmony 和やか(なごやか): mild, calm, gentle, quiet, harmonious 飽和(ほうわ): saturation 和らげる(やわらげる): to soften, to moderate, to relieve 和(わ): sum, harmony, peace 和風(わふう): Japanese style 和文(わぶん): Japanese text, sentence in Japanese 英和(えいわ): English-Japanese (e.g. dictionary) 漢和(かんわ): Chinese-Japanese (e.g. dictionary) 平和(へいわ): peace, harmony 和英(わえい): Japanese-English 和服(わふく): Japanese clothes Kunyomi: やわ.らぐ、やわ.らげる、なご.む、なご.やか Onyomi: ワ、オ、カ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 和解 (わかい), 和服 (わふく), 柔和 (にゅうわ), 和む (なご.む), 和やか (なご.やか), 和らぐ (やわ.らぐ), 和らげる (やわ.らげる)	harmony 和 画数8 963 Details Story Dictionary 和 harmony Heisig's Wheat . . . mouth. Koohii #1 The first step to harmony is having enough wheat to feed every mouth in the world. Once we are all fed it is easier to get a long in harmony. Koohii #2 People who live in harmony with nature live in the country. they are yokels or hillbillys. See Billy-bob sitting on the porch in their denhim dungarees a sheaf of wheat, sticking from their mouth. Primitives harmony, wheat, cereal, mouth 温和(おんわ): gentle, mild, moderate 緩和(かんわ): relief, mitigation 共和(きょうわ): republicanism, cooperation 中和(ちゅうわ): neutralize, counteract 調和(ちょうわ): harmony 和やか(なごやか): mild, calm, gentle, quiet, harmonious 飽和(ほうわ): saturation 和らげる(やわらげる): to soften, to moderate, to relieve 和(わ): sum, harmony, peace 和風(わふう): Japanese style 和文(わぶん): Japanese text, sentence in Japanese 英和(えいわ): English-Japanese (e.g. dictionary) 漢和(かんわ): Chinese-Japanese (e.g. dictionary) 平和(へいわ): peace, harmony 和英(わえい): Japanese-English 和服(わふく): Japanese clothes Kunyomi: やわ.らぐ、やわ.らげる、なご.む、なご.やか Onyomi: ワ、オ、カ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 和解 (わかい), 和服 (わふく), 柔和 (にゅうわ), 和む (なご.む), 和やか (なご.やか), 和らぐ (やわ.らぐ), 和らげる (やわ.らげる)
shift Details Story Dictionary 移 shift Heisig's Wheat . . . many. Koohii #1 Picture the WHEAT field, filled with MANY, MANY stalks of WHEAT. Notice how they SHIFT like waves in the slightest breeze. When you hear SHIFT, just picture that scene. Koohii #2 Many people are making the shift from white to whole wheat bread. Primitives shift, wheat, cereal, many, evening, evening2 移行(いこう): switching over to 移住(いじゅう): migration, immigration 移民(いみん): emigration, immigration, emigrant, immigrant 移転(いてん): moving, transfer, demise 移動(いどう): removal, migration, movement 移す(うつす): remove, transfer, infect 移る(うつる): move, change Kunyomi: うつ.る、うつ.す Onyomi: イ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 移す (うつ.す), 移る (うつ.る)	shift 移 画数11 964 Details Story Dictionary 移 shift Heisig's Wheat . . . many. Koohii #1 Picture the WHEAT field, filled with MANY, MANY stalks of WHEAT. Notice how they SHIFT like waves in the slightest breeze. When you hear SHIFT, just picture that scene. Koohii #2 Many people are making the shift from white to whole wheat bread. Primitives shift, wheat, cereal, many, evening, evening2 移行(いこう): switching over to 移住(いじゅう): migration, immigration 移民(いみん): emigration, immigration, emigrant, immigrant 移転(いてん): moving, transfer, demise 移動(いどう): removal, migration, movement 移す(うつす): remove, transfer, infect 移る(うつる): move, change Kunyomi: うつ.る、うつ.す Onyomi: イ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 移す (うつ.す), 移る (うつ.る)
second Details Story Dictionary 秒 second My Story A *few* grains of *wheat*, take but a second to eat. Koohii #1 An hourglass filled with wheat counts time. A few wheat seeds drop every second. Koohii #2 I´ll be with you soon... please wheat a few seconds. Primitives second, wheat, cereal, few 秒(びょう): second (time) Kunyomi: Onyomi: ビョウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	second 秒 画数9 965 Details Story Dictionary 秒 second My Story A *few* grains of *wheat*, take but a second to eat. Koohii #1 An hourglass filled with wheat counts time. A few wheat seeds drop every second. Koohii #2 I´ll be with you soon... please wheat a few seconds. Primitives second, wheat, cereal, few 秒(びょう): second (time) Kunyomi: Onyomi: ビョウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
autumn Details Story Dictionary 秋 autumn Heisig's Wheat . . . fire. Koohii #1 In AUTUMN, the WHEAT looks the color of FIRE, meaning it´s time to harvest it. Koohii #2 Every autumn the wheat is set on fire to clear the way for next year´s crop... Primitives autumn, wheat, cereal, fire 秋(あき): autumn, fall Kunyomi: あき、とき Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 秋 (あき)	autumn 秋 画数9 966 Details Story Dictionary 秋 autumn Heisig's Wheat . . . fire. Koohii #1 In AUTUMN, the WHEAT looks the color of FIRE, meaning it´s time to harvest it. Koohii #2 Every autumn the wheat is set on fire to clear the way for next year´s crop... Primitives autumn, wheat, cereal, fire 秋(あき): autumn, fall Kunyomi: あき、とき Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 秋 (あき)
"distress Details Story Dictionary 愁 distress Heisig's Autumn . . . heart. Koohii #1 In AUTUMN, the farmer´s HEART is in DISTRESS as to if he has enough crops. Even better, the farmer will experience great DISTRESS in his HEART if his WHEAT catches FIRE! Koohii #2 Here we have distressed (think ""gloomy"") people with ""seasonal mood disorder"" during the autumn season. Hence ""autumn heart"" is distressed (gloomy). Primitives distress, autumn, wheat, cereal, fire, heart 郷愁(きょうしゅう): nostalgia, homesickness Kunyomi: うれ.える、うれ.い Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 愁い (うれ.い), 愁える (うれ.える)"	"distress 愁 画数13 967 Details Story Dictionary 愁 distress Heisig's Autumn . . . heart. Koohii #1 In AUTUMN, the farmer´s HEART is in DISTRESS as to if he has enough crops. Even better, the farmer will experience great DISTRESS in his HEART if his WHEAT catches FIRE! Koohii #2 Here we have distressed (think ""gloomy"") people with ""seasonal mood disorder"" during the autumn season. Hence ""autumn heart"" is distressed (gloomy). Primitives distress, autumn, wheat, cereal, fire, heart 郷愁(きょうしゅう): nostalgia, homesickness Kunyomi: うれ.える、うれ.い Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 愁い (うれ.い), 愁える (うれ.える)"
"private Details Story Dictionary 私 private Heisig's Wheat . . . elbow. Like the characters for I (Frame 17) and ego (Frame 690), this kanji is also representative of the subject, with the special connotation of privacy. Koohii #1 Warning sign: ""Private wheat, trespassers will be elbowed"". Koohii #2 I already know this as watashi, or ""I"". In order to associate the keyword of private, I´ll think of this one as ""Private I"", like a detective. Primitives private, wheat, cereal, elbow 私(あたし): I (fem) 私物(しぶつ): private property, personal effects 私有(しゆう): private ownership 私用(しよう): personal use, private business 私鉄(してつ): private railway 私立(しりつ): private (establishment) 私(わたくし): I (formal), myself, private affairs Kunyomi: わたくし、わたし Onyomi: シ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 私 (わたくし)"	"private 私 画数7 968 Details Story Dictionary 私 private Heisig's Wheat . . . elbow. Like the characters for I (Frame 17) and ego (Frame 690), this kanji is also representative of the subject, with the special connotation of privacy. Koohii #1 Warning sign: ""Private wheat, trespassers will be elbowed"". Koohii #2 I already know this as watashi, or ""I"". In order to associate the keyword of private, I´ll think of this one as ""Private I"", like a detective. Primitives private, wheat, cereal, elbow 私(あたし): I (fem) 私物(しぶつ): private property, personal effects 私有(しゆう): private ownership 私用(しよう): personal use, private business 私鉄(してつ): private railway 私立(しりつ): private (establishment) 私(わたくし): I (formal), myself, private affairs Kunyomi: わたくし、わたし Onyomi: シ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 私 (わたくし)"
regularity Details Story Dictionary 秩 regularity Heisig's Wheat . . . drop. Koohii #1 Think of REGULARITY in terms of bowel movements. Enough WHEAT in your diet will help your DROPS with improved REGULARITY. Koohii #2 Eating plenty of wheat will improve regularity and help you lose weight. Primitives regularity, wheat, cereal, lose, drop, husband 秩序(ちつじょ): order, regularity, system, method Kunyomi: Onyomi: チツ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	regularity 秩 画数10 969 Details Story Dictionary 秩 regularity Heisig's Wheat . . . drop. Koohii #1 Think of REGULARITY in terms of bowel movements. Enough WHEAT in your diet will help your DROPS with improved REGULARITY. Koohii #2 Eating plenty of wheat will improve regularity and help you lose weight. Primitives regularity, wheat, cereal, lose, drop, husband 秩序(ちつじょ): order, regularity, system, method Kunyomi: Onyomi: チツ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
secret Details Story Dictionary 秘 secret My Story I *surely* smoke *wheat*, keep it a secret. Do not confuse with {密} [See {密} and {必}]. Koohii #1 The prize at the bottom of a cereal box is invariably a secret decoder ring. Koohii #2 A young couple meets in secret in the wheat field because their families are enemies. They cross their hearts and swear eternal - even if secret - love. Do not confuse with secrecy (#775). Primitives secret, wheat, cereal, invariably, heart, drop 神秘(しんぴ): mystery 秘書(ひしょ): (private) secretary 秘密(ひみつ): secret, secrecy Kunyomi: ひ.める、ひそ.か、かく.す Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 秘める (ひ.める)	secret 秘 画数10 970 Details Story Dictionary 秘 secret My Story I *surely* smoke *wheat*, keep it a secret. Do not confuse with {密} [See {密} and {必}]. Koohii #1 The prize at the bottom of a cereal box is invariably a secret decoder ring. Koohii #2 A young couple meets in secret in the wheat field because their families are enemies. They cross their hearts and swear eternal - even if secret - love. Do not confuse with secrecy (#775). Primitives secret, wheat, cereal, invariably, heart, drop 神秘(しんぴ): mystery 秘書(ひしょ): (private) secretary 秘密(ひみつ): secret, secrecy Kunyomi: ひ.める、ひそ.か、かく.す Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 秘める (ひ.める)
"appellation Details Story Dictionary 称 appellation Heisig's Wheat . . . reclining . . . little. Koohii #1 Taking appellation to mean the act of naming, we have the little baby superman reclining in the space craft that landed in a wheat field. Mr. and Mrs. Kent look down and decide to call him Clark. (I also thought of Jesus but he was born in a barn full of hay not wheat). Koohii #2 WHEAT that is RECLINING and LITTLE (small) can´t get the APPELLATION ""quality wheat"". Primitives appellation, wheat, cereal, hammock, reclining, lying down, small, little 称する(しょうする): to pretend, to take the name of, to feign, to purport 名称(めいしょう): name Kunyomi: たた.える、とな.える、あ.げる、かな.う、はか.り、はか.る、ほめ.る Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"appellation 称 画数10 971 Details Story Dictionary 称 appellation Heisig's Wheat . . . reclining . . . little. Koohii #1 Taking appellation to mean the act of naming, we have the little baby superman reclining in the space craft that landed in a wheat field. Mr. and Mrs. Kent look down and decide to call him Clark. (I also thought of Jesus but he was born in a barn full of hay not wheat). Koohii #2 WHEAT that is RECLINING and LITTLE (small) can´t get the APPELLATION ""quality wheat"". Primitives appellation, wheat, cereal, hammock, reclining, lying down, small, little 称する(しょうする): to pretend, to take the name of, to feign, to purport 名称(めいしょう): name Kunyomi: たた.える、とな.える、あ.げる、かな.う、はか.り、はか.る、ほめ.る Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
profit Details Story Dictionary 利 profit Heisig's Wheat . . . saber. Be careful not to confuse with gain (Frame 941) or earnings (Frame 959). Koohii #1 In the middle ages there where only 2 ways for peasantry to make a profit. one by being a farmer, 2 to be a mercenary and live by the way of the sword. Koohii #2 1. Steal a bunch of wheat from a wheat field by cutting it down with your saber. 2. ????? 3. Profit! Primitives profit, wheat, cereal, sword, sabre, saber 砂利(じゃり): gravel, ballast, pebbles 勝利(しょうり): victory, triumph, conquest, success, win 左利き(ひだりきき): left-handedness, sake drinker, left-hander 利根(りこん): intelligence 利子(りし): interest (bank) 利潤(りじゅん): profit, returns 利息(りそく): interest (bank) 利点(りてん): advantage, point in favor 権利(けんり): right, privilege 不利(ふり): disadvantage, handicap, unfavorable, drawback 有利(ゆうり): advantageous, better, profitable, lucrative 利益(りえき): profits, gains, (political, economic) interest 利害(りがい): advantages and disadvantages, interest 利口(りこう): clever, shrewd, bright, sharp, wise, intelligent 利用(りよう): use 便利(べんり): convenient, handy, useful Kunyomi: き.く Onyomi: リ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 利く (き.く)	profit 利 画数7 972 Details Story Dictionary 利 profit Heisig's Wheat . . . saber. Be careful not to confuse with gain (Frame 941) or earnings (Frame 959). Koohii #1 In the middle ages there where only 2 ways for peasantry to make a profit. one by being a farmer, 2 to be a mercenary and live by the way of the sword. Koohii #2 1. Steal a bunch of wheat from a wheat field by cutting it down with your saber. 2. ????? 3. Profit! Primitives profit, wheat, cereal, sword, sabre, saber 砂利(じゃり): gravel, ballast, pebbles 勝利(しょうり): victory, triumph, conquest, success, win 左利き(ひだりきき): left-handedness, sake drinker, left-hander 利根(りこん): intelligence 利子(りし): interest (bank) 利潤(りじゅん): profit, returns 利息(りそく): interest (bank) 利点(りてん): advantage, point in favor 権利(けんり): right, privilege 不利(ふり): disadvantage, handicap, unfavorable, drawback 有利(ゆうり): advantageous, better, profitable, lucrative 利益(りえき): profits, gains, (political, economic) interest 利害(りがい): advantages and disadvantages, interest 利口(りこう): clever, shrewd, bright, sharp, wise, intelligent 利用(りよう): use 便利(べんり): convenient, handy, useful Kunyomi: き.く Onyomi: リ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 利く (き.く)
pear tree Details Story Dictionary 梨 pear tree Heisig's Profit . . . tree. Koohii #1 The Japanese pear tree is the most profitable in the world, because it produces its fruit in pairs [sorry for the awful pun]. Koohii #2 And a profit in a pear tree...12 days of christmas. Primitives pear tree, profit, wheat, cereal, sword, sabre, saber, tree, wood Kunyomi: なし Onyomi: リ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 梨 (なし)	pear tree 梨 画数11 973 Details Story Dictionary 梨 pear tree Heisig's Profit . . . tree. Koohii #1 The Japanese pear tree is the most profitable in the world, because it produces its fruit in pairs [sorry for the awful pun]. Koohii #2 And a profit in a pear tree...12 days of christmas. Primitives pear tree, profit, wheat, cereal, sword, sabre, saber, tree, wood Kunyomi: なし Onyomi: リ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 梨 (なし)
harvest Details Story Dictionary 穫 harvest Heisig's Wheat . . . flowers . . . vessels. Compare frames 756 and 757 for the right side. Koohii #1 The harvest of genetically modified crops is taken onboard the Greenpeace vessel (see the flower vessel in safeguard (#700)). Koohii #2 Wheat is harvested; the grain (flower) is put into vessels for shipping. Primitives harvest, wheat, cereal, radio caroline, flowers, vessels, turkey, crotch 収穫(しゅうかく): harvest, crop, ingathering Kunyomi: Onyomi: カク Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	harvest 穫 画数18 974 Details Story Dictionary 穫 harvest Heisig's Wheat . . . flowers . . . vessels. Compare frames 756 and 757 for the right side. Koohii #1 The harvest of genetically modified crops is taken onboard the Greenpeace vessel (see the flower vessel in safeguard (#700)). Koohii #2 Wheat is harvested; the grain (flower) is put into vessels for shipping. Primitives harvest, wheat, cereal, radio caroline, flowers, vessels, turkey, crotch 収穫(しゅうかく): harvest, crop, ingathering Kunyomi: Onyomi: カク Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"ear of a plant Details Story Dictionary 穂 ear of a plant Heisig's Wheat . . . favor. Koohii #1 The pilgrims only had wheat, so they asked the Indians to do them a favor and trade them for some ears of corn. Koohii #2 The ""ear of a plant"" is the seed-bearing spike of a cereal plant, such as corn. In other words, it is the part which feeds us. Hence -- ""the ear (of a plant) is the favor of the wheat"". Primitives ear (of a plant), wheat, cereal, favour, favor, ten, needle, rice field, brains, heart 穂(ほ): ear (of plant), head (of plant) Kunyomi: ほ Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 穂 (ほ)"	"ear of a plant 穂 画数15 975 Details Story Dictionary 穂 ear of a plant Heisig's Wheat . . . favor. Koohii #1 The pilgrims only had wheat, so they asked the Indians to do them a favor and trade them for some ears of corn. Koohii #2 The ""ear of a plant"" is the seed-bearing spike of a cereal plant, such as corn. In other words, it is the part which feeds us. Hence -- ""the ear (of a plant) is the favor of the wheat"". Primitives ear (of a plant), wheat, cereal, favour, favor, ten, needle, rice field, brains, heart 穂(ほ): ear (of plant), head (of plant) Kunyomi: ほ Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 穂 (ほ)"
rice plant Details Story Dictionary 稲 rice plant Heisig's Wheat . . . vulture . . . olden times. Koohii #1 The rice plant is common in Japan because all the wheat was eaten by vultures in the olden times. Koohii #2 It used to be that wheat was grown in Japan. However, this was often stolen by vultures, so in olden times, the gods gave the Japanese the rice plant. Primitives rice plant, wheat, cereal, claw, vulture, old days, olden times, stick, sun, day 稲光(いなびかり): (flash of) lightning 稲(いね): rice plant Kunyomi: いね、いな- Onyomi: トウ、テ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 稲 (いね)	rice plant 稲 画数14 976 Details Story Dictionary 稲 rice plant Heisig's Wheat . . . vulture . . . olden times. Koohii #1 The rice plant is common in Japan because all the wheat was eaten by vultures in the olden times. Koohii #2 It used to be that wheat was grown in Japan. However, this was often stolen by vultures, so in olden times, the gods gave the Japanese the rice plant. Primitives rice plant, wheat, cereal, claw, vulture, old days, olden times, stick, sun, day 稲光(いなびかり): (flash of) lightning 稲(いね): rice plant Kunyomi: いね、いな- Onyomi: トウ、テ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 稲 (いね)
incense Details Story Dictionary 香 incense Heisig's Wheat . . . sun. Koohii #1 If you focus the suns though a magnifying glass on to the bottom of a stalk of wheat it will start to smoulder and burn like a stick of incense. The weird thing is that it burns from the bottom upwards, hanging in the air as if my magic. Try it and see! Koohii #2 When the sun burns the wheat a smell of incense remains in the air. Primitives incense, wheat, cereal, sun, day 香辛料(こうしんりょう): spices 香り(かおり): aroma, fragrance, scent, smell 香水(こうすい): perfume Kunyomi: か、かお.り、かお.る Onyomi: コウ、キョウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 香水 (こうすい), 香気 (こうき), 線香 (せんこう), 香 (か), 香り (かお.り), 香る (かお.る)	incense 香 画数9 977 Details Story Dictionary 香 incense Heisig's Wheat . . . sun. Koohii #1 If you focus the suns though a magnifying glass on to the bottom of a stalk of wheat it will start to smoulder and burn like a stick of incense. The weird thing is that it burns from the bottom upwards, hanging in the air as if my magic. Try it and see! Koohii #2 When the sun burns the wheat a smell of incense remains in the air. Primitives incense, wheat, cereal, sun, day 香辛料(こうしんりょう): spices 香り(かおり): aroma, fragrance, scent, smell 香水(こうすい): perfume Kunyomi: か、かお.り、かお.る Onyomi: コウ、キョウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 香水 (こうすい), 香気 (こうき), 線香 (せんこう), 香 (か), 香り (かお.り), 香る (かお.る)
"seasons Details Story Dictionary 季 seasons Heisig's Wheat . . . child. Koohii #1 There´s a season for planting wheat and there´s mating season for having children. Koohii #2 Look at this adorable child with a bale of wheat on his head! He´s playing Autumn in his school play the ""Four Seasons"". Aww...too cute! Perhaps we should light the wheat on fire to complete his Autumn costume. (I know, twisted...but I kept forgetting what was on his head). Primitives seasons, wheat, cereal, child 季刊(きかん): quarterly (e.g. magazine) 四季(しき): four seasons 季節(きせつ): season Kunyomi: Onyomi: キ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"seasons 季 画数8 978 Details Story Dictionary 季 seasons Heisig's Wheat . . . child. Koohii #1 There´s a season for planting wheat and there´s mating season for having children. Koohii #2 Look at this adorable child with a bale of wheat on his head! He´s playing Autumn in his school play the ""Four Seasons"". Aww...too cute! Perhaps we should light the wheat on fire to complete his Autumn costume. (I know, twisted...but I kept forgetting what was on his head). Primitives seasons, wheat, cereal, child 季刊(きかん): quarterly (e.g. magazine) 四季(しき): four seasons 季節(きせつ): season Kunyomi: Onyomi: キ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
committee Details Story Dictionary 委 committee My Story [ Wheat + Woman ] Female WHEAT farmers decide to create a COMMITTEE, which they fittingly name “The WHEAT WOMEN COMMITTEE.” Koohii #1 Female WHEAT farmers decide to create a COMMITTEE, which they fittingly name “The WHEAT WOMEN COMMITTEE.”. Koohii #2 At committe meetings, Japanese bureaucrats slurp ramen noodles off of naked women. Primitives committee, wheat, cereal, woman 委託(いたく): consign (goods (for sale) to a firm), entrust (person with something), commit 委員(いいん): committee member Kunyomi: ゆだ.ねる Onyomi: イ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	committee 委 画数8 979 Details Story Dictionary 委 committee My Story [ Wheat + Woman ] Female WHEAT farmers decide to create a COMMITTEE, which they fittingly name “The WHEAT WOMEN COMMITTEE.” Koohii #1 Female WHEAT farmers decide to create a COMMITTEE, which they fittingly name “The WHEAT WOMEN COMMITTEE.”. Koohii #2 At committe meetings, Japanese bureaucrats slurp ramen noodles off of naked women. Primitives committee, wheat, cereal, woman 委託(いたく): consign (goods (for sale) to a firm), entrust (person with something), commit 委員(いいん): committee member Kunyomi: ゆだ.ねる Onyomi: イ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
"excel Details Story Dictionary 秀 excel Heisig's Wheat . . . fist. Koohii #1 You spend three hours putting all of your wheat sale transaction records into Microsoft Excel, when suddenly it crashes, so you put your fist through the monitor. Koohii #2 A soviet-era poster for the 5-year plan shouts ""Excel"" and shows a fist clenching a sheaf of wheat. Wheat/Fist. Primitives excel, wheat, cereal, fist, from 優秀(ゆうしゅう): superiority, excellence Kunyomi: ひい.でる Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 秀でる (ひい.でる)"	"excel 秀 画数7 980 Details Story Dictionary 秀 excel Heisig's Wheat . . . fist. Koohii #1 You spend three hours putting all of your wheat sale transaction records into Microsoft Excel, when suddenly it crashes, so you put your fist through the monitor. Koohii #2 A soviet-era poster for the 5-year plan shouts ""Excel"" and shows a fist clenching a sheaf of wheat. Wheat/Fist. Primitives excel, wheat, cereal, fist, from 優秀(ゆうしゅう): superiority, excellence Kunyomi: ひい.でる Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 秀でる (ひい.でる)"
transparent Details Story Dictionary 透 transparent Heisig's Excel . . . road-way. Koohii #1 If you excel in the Mario Kart road, your movements are saved and you can race against yourself as a transparent racer. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xe8CkcrL-k4. Koohii #2 If you want to excel at driving in the roadway, it´s better if your windows and windshield are transparent. Picture the drivers with opaque windshields all wrecked on the side of the road. Primitives transparent, excel, wheat, cereal, fist, from, road 透き通る(すきとおる): be or become transparent 透明(とうめい): transparency, cleanness Kunyomi: す.く、す.かす、す.ける、とう.る、とう.す Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 透かす (す.かす), 透く (す.く), 透ける (す.ける)	transparent 透 画数10 981 Details Story Dictionary 透 transparent Heisig's Excel . . . road-way. Koohii #1 If you excel in the Mario Kart road, your movements are saved and you can race against yourself as a transparent racer. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xe8CkcrL-k4. Koohii #2 If you want to excel at driving in the roadway, it´s better if your windows and windshield are transparent. Picture the drivers with opaque windshields all wrecked on the side of the road. Primitives transparent, excel, wheat, cereal, fist, from, road 透き通る(すきとおる): be or become transparent 透明(とうめい): transparency, cleanness Kunyomi: す.く、す.かす、す.ける、とう.る、とう.す Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 透かす (す.かす), 透く (す.く), 透ける (す.ける)
entice Details Story Dictionary 誘 entice Heisig's Words . . . excel. Compare beckon (Frame 702), to urge (Frame 300), seduce (Frame 90), and encourage (Frame 931) when choosing your connotation. Koohii #1 Think of the smooth talker who EXCELS at using WORDS to entice women (including married women if it makes it easier to remember). Koohii #2 Word and Excel somehow manage to entice people to use them, despite their plethora of bugs. Primitives entice, say, words, keitai, mouth, excel, wheat, cereal, fist, from 勧誘(かんゆう): invitation, solicitation, canvassing, inducement, persuasion, encouragement 誘導(ゆうどう): guidance, leading, induction, introduction, incitement, inducement 誘惑(ゆうわく): temptation, allurement, lure 誘う(さそう): invite, call out Kunyomi: さそ.う、いざな.う Onyomi: ユウ、イウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 誘う (さそ.う)	entice 誘 画数14 982 Details Story Dictionary 誘 entice Heisig's Words . . . excel. Compare beckon (Frame 702), to urge (Frame 300), seduce (Frame 90), and encourage (Frame 931) when choosing your connotation. Koohii #1 Think of the smooth talker who EXCELS at using WORDS to entice women (including married women if it makes it easier to remember). Koohii #2 Word and Excel somehow manage to entice people to use them, despite their plethora of bugs. Primitives entice, say, words, keitai, mouth, excel, wheat, cereal, fist, from 勧誘(かんゆう): invitation, solicitation, canvassing, inducement, persuasion, encouragement 誘導(ゆうどう): guidance, leading, induction, introduction, incitement, inducement 誘惑(ゆうわく): temptation, allurement, lure 誘う(さそう): invite, call out Kunyomi: さそ.う、いざな.う Onyomi: ユウ、イウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 誘う (さそ.う)
training Details Story Dictionary 稽 training Heisig's Wheat . . . chihuahua with one human leg . . . delicious. Koohii #1 After a hard day of training, wheat is understandably delicious. Koohii #2 After training hard and eating Wheaties for months, you are understandably thrilled to sink your spoon into a delicious hot fudge sundae. Primitives training, wheat, cereal, understandably, chihuahua with one human leg, delicious, spoon, sitting on the ground, sun, day 滑稽(こっけい): funny, humorous, comical, laughable, ridiculous, joking 稽古(けいこ): practice, training, study Kunyomi: かんが.える、とど.める Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	training 稽 画数15 983 Details Story Dictionary 稽 training Heisig's Wheat . . . chihuahua with one human leg . . . delicious. Koohii #1 After a hard day of training, wheat is understandably delicious. Koohii #2 After training hard and eating Wheaties for months, you are understandably thrilled to sink your spoon into a delicious hot fudge sundae. Primitives training, wheat, cereal, understandably, chihuahua with one human leg, delicious, spoon, sitting on the ground, sun, day 滑稽(こっけい): funny, humorous, comical, laughable, ridiculous, joking 稽古(けいこ): practice, training, study Kunyomi: かんが.える、とど.める Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
cereals Details Story Dictionary 穀 cereals Heisig's Samurai . . . crown . . . wheat . . . missile. Koohii #1 There are different cereals in different parts of the world. Japan has samurai cereal. Great Britain has Crowned Wheat ... the United States and Russia have Missile cereals. Koohii #2 The samurai crowns wheat as the best cereal, and blows all others up with missiles (he´s a cereal killer). Primitives cereals, samurai, crown, wheat, cereal, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 穀物(こくもつ): grain, cereal, corn Kunyomi: Onyomi: コク Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	cereals 穀 画数14 984 Details Story Dictionary 穀 cereals Heisig's Samurai . . . crown . . . wheat . . . missile. Koohii #1 There are different cereals in different parts of the world. Japan has samurai cereal. Great Britain has Crowned Wheat ... the United States and Russia have Missile cereals. Koohii #2 The samurai crowns wheat as the best cereal, and blows all others up with missiles (he´s a cereal killer). Primitives cereals, samurai, crown, wheat, cereal, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 穀物(こくもつ): grain, cereal, corn Kunyomi: Onyomi: コク Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
germ Details Story Dictionary 菌 germ Heisig's Flowers . . . pent in . . . wheat. Koohii #1 Can also mean bacteria.....imagine the wheat pent in your fridge growing to the point where they resemble flowers.......I actually had something similar happen to onions...they grew footlong legs after about 2 or 3 years......OR just think of that Cowboy Bebop episode with the lobster in the fridge... :-). Koohii #2 Actually it means germs as in microorganisms. So for example, you have to keep wheat enclosed so it isn´t exposed to other plants. That way it can´t catch any germs (like fungi) from them. Primitives germ, flowers, pent in, wheat, cereal 細菌(さいきん): bacillus, bacterium, germ 黴菌(ばいきん): bacteria, germ(s) Kunyomi: Onyomi: キン Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	germ 菌 画数11 985 Details Story Dictionary 菌 germ Heisig's Flowers . . . pent in . . . wheat. Koohii #1 Can also mean bacteria.....imagine the wheat pent in your fridge growing to the point where they resemble flowers.......I actually had something similar happen to onions...they grew footlong legs after about 2 or 3 years......OR just think of that Cowboy Bebop episode with the lobster in the fridge... :-). Koohii #2 Actually it means germs as in microorganisms. So for example, you have to keep wheat enclosed so it isn´t exposed to other plants. That way it can´t catch any germs (like fungi) from them. Primitives germ, flowers, pent in, wheat, cereal 細菌(さいきん): bacillus, bacterium, germ 黴菌(ばいきん): bacteria, germ(s) Kunyomi: Onyomi: キン Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"numb Details Story Dictionary 萎 numb Heisig's Flowers . . . committee. Koohii #1 Oh, the committee´s in for a surprise: I put some nightshades into their drinks. They´ll be numb for sure, probably worse. Koohii #2 The keyword numb makes no sense. I choose 萎む（しぼむ）""to fade away"". A girl lies in a wheat field at the same time every day. A photo is taken every day showing this scene and a time lapse video shows the wheat growing through the year until the wheat is tall and the top sprouts to look like its flowers. At this point, the girl can no longer be seen in the photos and she fades away. Primitives numb, flowers, committee, wheat, cereal, woman 萎びる(しなびる): to wilt, to fade 萎む(しぼむ): to wither, to fade (away), to shrivel, to wilt Kunyomi: な、しお.れる、しな.びる、しぼ.む、な.える Onyomi: イ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 萎える (な.える)"	"numb 萎 画数11 986 Details Story Dictionary 萎 numb Heisig's Flowers . . . committee. Koohii #1 Oh, the committee´s in for a surprise: I put some nightshades into their drinks. They´ll be numb for sure, probably worse. Koohii #2 The keyword numb makes no sense. I choose 萎む（しぼむ）""to fade away"". A girl lies in a wheat field at the same time every day. A photo is taken every day showing this scene and a time lapse video shows the wheat growing through the year until the wheat is tall and the top sprouts to look like its flowers. At this point, the girl can no longer be seen in the photos and she fades away. Primitives numb, flowers, committee, wheat, cereal, woman 萎びる(しなびる): to wilt, to fade 萎む(しぼむ): to wither, to fade (away), to shrivel, to wilt Kunyomi: な、しお.れる、しな.びる、しぼ.む、な.える Onyomi: イ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 萎える (な.える)"
rice Details Story Dictionary 米 rice Heisig's This kanji has a pictographic resemblance to a number of grains of rice lying on a plate in the shape of a star. * As a primitive, it keeps its meaning of rice, and is meant to connote a very ordinary, commonplace grain, in contrast to the primitive for wheat that we just learned. (This meaning accords well with Japan, where the output of rice far exceeds that of wheat.) It occasionally takes a different shape when it stands on its own, or is joined to a line above. In this case, we shall have it refer specifically to grains of rice. This primitive is not to be confused with the similar-looking primitive for water. While the stroke orders are nearly alike, grains of rice has 5 strokes, while water only has 4 because it joins the second and third strokes into one. Finally, we may note that by itself the kanji for rice is an abbreviation used for the United States, which can then also serve as an alternate reading for the main primitive form, if you so wish. Koohii #1 Stroke order: I like to think of the first two strokes as “chop sticks” with which one eats the rice. The rest then is the “tree” meaning “plant” in this contexct. also: USA. Koohii #2 Two drops of rice in a tree, simple. Primitives rice 欧米(おうべい): Europe and America, the West 南米(なんべい): South America 米(こめ): rice Kunyomi: こめ、よね Onyomi: ベイ、マイ、メエトル Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 米作 (べいさく), 米価 (べいか), 米食 (べいしょく), 米 (こめ)	rice 米 画数6 987 Details Story Dictionary 米 rice Heisig's This kanji has a pictographic resemblance to a number of grains of rice lying on a plate in the shape of a star. * As a primitive, it keeps its meaning of rice, and is meant to connote a very ordinary, commonplace grain, in contrast to the primitive for wheat that we just learned. (This meaning accords well with Japan, where the output of rice far exceeds that of wheat.) It occasionally takes a different shape when it stands on its own, or is joined to a line above. In this case, we shall have it refer specifically to grains of rice. This primitive is not to be confused with the similar-looking primitive for water. While the stroke orders are nearly alike, grains of rice has 5 strokes, while water only has 4 because it joins the second and third strokes into one. Finally, we may note that by itself the kanji for rice is an abbreviation used for the United States, which can then also serve as an alternate reading for the main primitive form, if you so wish. Koohii #1 Stroke order: I like to think of the first two strokes as “chop sticks” with which one eats the rice. The rest then is the “tree” meaning “plant” in this contexct. also: USA. Koohii #2 Two drops of rice in a tree, simple. Primitives rice 欧米(おうべい): Europe and America, the West 南米(なんべい): South America 米(こめ): rice Kunyomi: こめ、よね Onyomi: ベイ、マイ、メエトル Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 米作 (べいさく), 米価 (べいか), 米食 (べいしょく), 米 (こめ)
flour Details Story Dictionary 粉 flour Heisig's Rice . . . part. Koohii #1 Parts of parts of parts of parts of rice... is flour. (Image: geishas patting their face with RICE flour to make it white. Not wheat flour...). Koohii #2 In the United States, part of every meal is made from flour. Primitives flour, rice, part, eight, sword, dagger 花粉(かふん): pollen 粉々(こなごな): in very small pieces 粉末(ふんまつ): fine powder 粉(こな): flour, meal, powder Kunyomi: こ、こな Onyomi: フン、デシメートル Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 粉 (こ), 粉 (こな)	flour 粉 画数10 988 Details Story Dictionary 粉 flour Heisig's Rice . . . part. Koohii #1 Parts of parts of parts of parts of rice... is flour. (Image: geishas patting their face with RICE flour to make it white. Not wheat flour...). Koohii #2 In the United States, part of every meal is made from flour. Primitives flour, rice, part, eight, sword, dagger 花粉(かふん): pollen 粉々(こなごな): in very small pieces 粉末(ふんまつ): fine powder 粉(こな): flour, meal, powder Kunyomi: こ、こな Onyomi: フン、デシメートル Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 粉 (こ), 粉 (こな)
sticky Details Story Dictionary 粘 sticky Heisig's Rice . . . fortune-telling. Koohii #1 This is another way of fortune telling -- throw sticky rice against the wall, and look for the message in whatever sticks. Koohii #2 CONDI RICE was told by the FORTUNE TELLER that she will get STICKY... Primitives sticky, rice, fortune-telling, magic wand, augury, mouth 粘り(ねばり): stickyness, viscosity 粘る(ねばる): to be sticky, to be adhesive, to persevere, to persist, to stick to Kunyomi: ねば.る Onyomi: ネン Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 粘る (ねば.る)	sticky 粘 画数11 989 Details Story Dictionary 粘 sticky Heisig's Rice . . . fortune-telling. Koohii #1 This is another way of fortune telling -- throw sticky rice against the wall, and look for the message in whatever sticks. Koohii #2 CONDI RICE was told by the FORTUNE TELLER that she will get STICKY... Primitives sticky, rice, fortune-telling, magic wand, augury, mouth 粘り(ねばり): stickyness, viscosity 粘る(ねばる): to be sticky, to be adhesive, to persevere, to persist, to stick to Kunyomi: ねば.る Onyomi: ネン Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 粘る (ねば.る)
grains Details Story Dictionary 粒 grains Heisig's Rice . . . vase. Koohii #1 A sage is using rice to fill up a vase, but as an exercise in patience, he´s doing it grain by grain. Koohii #2 There´s a contest...whoever guesses the number of grains of rice in a vase wins. Primitives grains, rice, vase, stand up 粒(つぶ): grain Kunyomi: つぶ Onyomi: リュウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 粒 (つぶ)	grains 粒 画数11 990 Details Story Dictionary 粒 grains Heisig's Rice . . . vase. Koohii #1 A sage is using rice to fill up a vase, but as an exercise in patience, he´s doing it grain by grain. Koohii #2 There´s a contest...whoever guesses the number of grains of rice in a vase wins. Primitives grains, rice, vase, stand up 粒(つぶ): grain Kunyomi: つぶ Onyomi: リュウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 粒 (つぶ)
cosmetics Details Story Dictionary 粧 cosmetics Heisig's Rice . . . cave . . . soil. Koohii #1 Condy Rice is actually white, but she uses special cosmetics made from dirt she found in a cave to appear black - it´s better for the political situation. Koohii #2 Modern cosmetics are just the descendants of the old RICE flour and CAVE DIRT (´cause it´s darker) used in the past. Primitives cosmetics, rice, shire, cave, soil, dirt, ground 化粧(けしょう): make-up (cosmetic) Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	cosmetics 粧 画数12 991 Details Story Dictionary 粧 cosmetics Heisig's Rice . . . cave . . . soil. Koohii #1 Condy Rice is actually white, but she uses special cosmetics made from dirt she found in a cave to appear black - it´s better for the political situation. Koohii #2 Modern cosmetics are just the descendants of the old RICE flour and CAVE DIRT (´cause it´s darker) used in the past. Primitives cosmetics, rice, shire, cave, soil, dirt, ground 化粧(けしょう): make-up (cosmetic) Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
astray (lost) Details Story Dictionary 迷 astray (lost) My Story I have been lead #astray#, there was no *rice* on the *road* to America. Koohii #1 The road that the USA is heading down is, well... let´s just say that they´re astray... Koohii #2 If you go astray, just follow the rice you dropped along the road to find your way back. Primitives astray, rice, road 迷子(まいご): lost (stray) child 迷信(めいしん): superstition 迷惑(めいわく): trouble, bother, annoyance Kunyomi: まよ.う Onyomi: メイ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 迷う (まよ.う)	astray (lost) 迷 画数9 992 Details Story Dictionary 迷 astray (lost) My Story I have been lead #astray#, there was no *rice* on the *road* to America. Koohii #1 The road that the USA is heading down is, well... let´s just say that they´re astray... Koohii #2 If you go astray, just follow the rice you dropped along the road to find your way back. Primitives astray, rice, road 迷子(まいご): lost (stray) child 迷信(めいしん): superstition 迷惑(めいわく): trouble, bother, annoyance Kunyomi: まよ.う Onyomi: メイ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 迷う (まよ.う)
chic Details Story Dictionary 粋 chic Heisig's Rice . . . game of cricket. (See frame 121.) Koohii #1 In extremely chic restaurants, you have to pay 90 bucks for a bowl of rice. Koohii #2 Americans think that tattoos with Chinese characters are chic, but nine out of ten times they end up with something trivial tattooed on their arm, like rice. Primitives chic, rice, ninety, nine, baseball, ten, needle 粋(いき): chic, style, purity, essence 純粋(じゅんすい): pure, true, genuine, unmixed Kunyomi: いき Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	chic 粋 画数10 993 Details Story Dictionary 粋 chic Heisig's Rice . . . game of cricket. (See frame 121.) Koohii #1 In extremely chic restaurants, you have to pay 90 bucks for a bowl of rice. Koohii #2 Americans think that tattoos with Chinese characters are chic, but nine out of ten times they end up with something trivial tattooed on their arm, like rice. Primitives chic, rice, ninety, nine, baseball, ten, needle 粋(いき): chic, style, purity, essence 純粋(じゅんすい): pure, true, genuine, unmixed Kunyomi: いき Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
riddle Details Story Dictionary 謎 riddle Heisig's Words . . . astray. Koohii #1 Words meant to lead you astray are those of a riddle. Koohii #2 I led Socrates astray with my riddle. He quit philosophizing and thought only about the riddle. Primitives riddle, say, words, keitai, mouth, astray, rice, road 謎(なぞ): riddle, puzzle, enigma Kunyomi: なぞ Onyomi: メイ、ベイ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 謎 (なぞ)	riddle 謎 画数16 994 Details Story Dictionary 謎 riddle Heisig's Words . . . astray. Koohii #1 Words meant to lead you astray are those of a riddle. Koohii #2 I led Socrates astray with my riddle. He quit philosophizing and thought only about the riddle. Primitives riddle, say, words, keitai, mouth, astray, rice, road 謎(なぞ): riddle, puzzle, enigma Kunyomi: なぞ Onyomi: メイ、ベイ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 謎 (なぞ)
"provisions Details Story Dictionary 糧 provisions Heisig's Rice . . . quantity. Koohii #1 Imagine Japanese army provisions like obentou boxes, always containing the same quantity of rice. (thanks darg_sama, emphasizing quantity and the nuance of food ""rations"", ""food supply"": the kanji also appears in ""military provisions"" and ""army rice""). Koohii #2 All Japanese provisions contain a certain quantity of rice... they eat it with just about every meal! Primitives provisions, rice, quantity, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor, computer 食糧(しょくりょう): provisions, rations Kunyomi: かて Onyomi: リョウ、ロウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 糧食 (かてしょく), 糧道 (りょうどう), 糧 (かて)"	"provisions 糧 画数18 995 Details Story Dictionary 糧 provisions Heisig's Rice . . . quantity. Koohii #1 Imagine Japanese army provisions like obentou boxes, always containing the same quantity of rice. (thanks darg_sama, emphasizing quantity and the nuance of food ""rations"", ""food supply"": the kanji also appears in ""military provisions"" and ""army rice""). Koohii #2 All Japanese provisions contain a certain quantity of rice... they eat it with just about every meal! Primitives provisions, rice, quantity, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor, computer 食糧(しょくりょう): provisions, rations Kunyomi: かて Onyomi: リョウ、ロウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 糧食 (かてしょく), 糧道 (りょうどう), 糧 (かて)"
chrysanthemum Details Story Dictionary 菊 chrysanthemum Heisig's Flower . . . bound up . . . rice. Koohii #1 Chrysanthemum flower consists of many tiny petals, just like many rice grains bound up together. Koohii #2 [+astgt] Chrysanthemum is a terrorist orginization whose sole objective is to tie up Condi Rice. One day, Condi Rice is standing outside when a group of chrysanthemum agents swoop in from the sides, bound her up with chrysanthemum rope, and dash off. They leave a lone yellow chrysanthemum flower on top of the bound Condi Rice as a sign to let her discoverers know who committed this brave and noble act. Primitives chrysanthemum, flowers, rice cooker, bound up, rice Kunyomi: Onyomi: キク Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	chrysanthemum 菊 画数11 996 Details Story Dictionary 菊 chrysanthemum Heisig's Flower . . . bound up . . . rice. Koohii #1 Chrysanthemum flower consists of many tiny petals, just like many rice grains bound up together. Koohii #2 [+astgt] Chrysanthemum is a terrorist orginization whose sole objective is to tie up Condi Rice. One day, Condi Rice is standing outside when a group of chrysanthemum agents swoop in from the sides, bound her up with chrysanthemum rope, and dash off. They leave a lone yellow chrysanthemum flower on top of the bound Condi Rice as a sign to let her discoverers know who committed this brave and noble act. Primitives chrysanthemum, flowers, rice cooker, bound up, rice Kunyomi: Onyomi: キク Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"core Details Story Dictionary 奥 core My Story [GM's moustache (with a drop) + Rice + Big] Koohii #1 In the core of a nuclear reactor, scientists have discovered a way to get power from rice, by penting it in under high pressure. It´s very dangerous, so they´ve trained a st. bernard dog to run things, he´s adding more drops of rice as necessary. Koohii #2 奥さん　（おくさん) is a common way to say ""wife"". In the innermost core of the house, the bored pent up housewife drops her chores and consumes so much rice she becomes a very large housewife. Primitives core, drop, pent in, rice, large, St. Bernard 奥(おく): interior 奥さん(おくさん): (polite) wife, your wife, his wife, married lady, madam Kunyomi: おく.まる、くま Onyomi: オウ、オク Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 奥 (おく)"	"core 奥 画数12 997 Details Story Dictionary 奥 core My Story [GM's moustache (with a drop) + Rice + Big] Koohii #1 In the core of a nuclear reactor, scientists have discovered a way to get power from rice, by penting it in under high pressure. It´s very dangerous, so they´ve trained a st. bernard dog to run things, he´s adding more drops of rice as necessary. Koohii #2 奥さん　（おくさん) is a common way to say ""wife"". In the innermost core of the house, the bored pent up housewife drops her chores and consumes so much rice she becomes a very large housewife. Primitives core, drop, pent in, rice, large, St. Bernard 奥(おく): interior 奥さん(おくさん): (polite) wife, your wife, his wife, married lady, madam Kunyomi: おく.まる、くま Onyomi: オウ、オク Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 奥 (おく)"
"number Details Story Dictionary 数 number My Story [Rice + Woman + Director] *Rice*-*women* are nothing but numbers to the *director*. Koohii #1 Young taskmaster is learning numbers by watching women haul sacks of rice past him. ""One... two... four! No, wrong! Go back, go back!"". Koohii #2 Women toil in the rice fields carrying heavy sacks of rice to be numbered and counted by the taskmaster. Primitives number, rice, woman, taskmaster 奇数(きすう): odd number 少数(しょうすう): minority, few 数詞(すうし): numeral 多数決(たすうけつ): majority rule 手数(てかず): number of moves, trouble 回数(かいすう): number of times, frequency 回数券(かいすうけん): book of tickets 数(かず): number, figure 数える(かぞえる): count 過半数(かはんすう): majority 偶数(ぐうすう): even number 算数(さんすう): arithmetic 小数(しょうすう): fraction (part of), decimal 数(すう): number, (mathematics) function 数字(すうじ): numeral, figure 整数(せいすう): integer 単数(たんすう): singular (number) 点数(てんすう): marks, points, score, number of items, credits 複数(ふくすう): plural, multiple 分数(ぶんすう): (mathematics) fraction 枚数(まいすう): the number of flat things 無数(むすう): countless number, infinite number 数学(すうがく): mathematics Kunyomi: かず、かぞ.える、しばしば、せ.める、わずらわ.しい Onyomi: スウ、ス、サク、ソク、シュ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 数字 (すうじ), 数量 (すうりょう), 年数 (ねんすう), 数 (かず), 数える (かぞ.える)"	"number 数 画数13 998 Details Story Dictionary 数 number My Story [Rice + Woman + Director] *Rice*-*women* are nothing but numbers to the *director*. Koohii #1 Young taskmaster is learning numbers by watching women haul sacks of rice past him. ""One... two... four! No, wrong! Go back, go back!"". Koohii #2 Women toil in the rice fields carrying heavy sacks of rice to be numbered and counted by the taskmaster. Primitives number, rice, woman, taskmaster 奇数(きすう): odd number 少数(しょうすう): minority, few 数詞(すうし): numeral 多数決(たすうけつ): majority rule 手数(てかず): number of moves, trouble 回数(かいすう): number of times, frequency 回数券(かいすうけん): book of tickets 数(かず): number, figure 数える(かぞえる): count 過半数(かはんすう): majority 偶数(ぐうすう): even number 算数(さんすう): arithmetic 小数(しょうすう): fraction (part of), decimal 数(すう): number, (mathematics) function 数字(すうじ): numeral, figure 整数(せいすう): integer 単数(たんすう): singular (number) 点数(てんすう): marks, points, score, number of items, credits 複数(ふくすう): plural, multiple 分数(ぶんすう): (mathematics) fraction 枚数(まいすう): the number of flat things 無数(むすう): countless number, infinite number 数学(すうがく): mathematics Kunyomi: かず、かぞ.える、しばしば、せ.める、わずらわ.しい Onyomi: スウ、ス、サク、ソク、シュ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 数字 (すうじ), 数量 (すうりょう), 年数 (ねんすう), 数 (かず), 数える (かぞ.える)"
"watchtower Details Story Dictionary 楼 watchtower Heisig's Tree . . . rice . . . woman. Koohii #1 The young taskmaster (see number (#929)) uses a tree as a watchtower to get a better view of his rice-carrying women. ""I can seeeee you! One! Two! Three!"". Koohii #2 On the top of the woodmade watchtower we look for our enemies, who will come to steal our rice and our women. Primitives watchtower, tree, wood, rice, woman Kunyomi: たかどの Onyomi: ロウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"watchtower 楼 画数13 999 Details Story Dictionary 楼 watchtower Heisig's Tree . . . rice . . . woman. Koohii #1 The young taskmaster (see number (#929)) uses a tree as a watchtower to get a better view of his rice-carrying women. ""I can seeeee you! One! Two! Three!"". Koohii #2 On the top of the woodmade watchtower we look for our enemies, who will come to steal our rice and our women. Primitives watchtower, tree, wood, rice, woman Kunyomi: たかどの Onyomi: ロウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"sort / variety Details Story Dictionary 類 sort / variety My Story [Rice + Big + Head/Page] There are many sorts of *rice* in Japan. Some are as *big* as your *head*! Koohii #1 Note this character means sort in the sense of what kind, I believe a better keyword would be ""variety"" and this character does appear in some dictionaries with the primary meaning as variety, my story: I´m in a Chinese restaurant and the waiter says ""What sort of rice would you like with your dog head?"". Koohii #2 Condi Rice is the SORT of person that would give HEADaches to a BIG DOG.....This story has been edited because of people reporting it. I like it better without ""aches"", but whatever works for you! Primitives sort, rice, large, St. Bernard, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 衣類(いるい): clothes, clothing, garments 類(たぐい): a kind 類似(るいじ): analogous 類推(るいすい): analogy 種類(しゅるい): variety, kind, type, category, counter for different sorts of things 書類(しょるい): documents, official papers 親類(しんるい): relation, kin 人類(じんるい): mankind, humanity 分類(ぶんるい): classification Kunyomi: たぐ.い Onyomi: ルイ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"sort / variety 類 画数18 1000 Details Story Dictionary 類 sort / variety My Story [Rice + Big + Head/Page] There are many sorts of *rice* in Japan. Some are as *big* as your *head*! Koohii #1 Note this character means sort in the sense of what kind, I believe a better keyword would be ""variety"" and this character does appear in some dictionaries with the primary meaning as variety, my story: I´m in a Chinese restaurant and the waiter says ""What sort of rice would you like with your dog head?"". Koohii #2 Condi Rice is the SORT of person that would give HEADaches to a BIG DOG.....This story has been edited because of people reporting it. I like it better without ""aches"", but whatever works for you! Primitives sort, rice, large, St. Bernard, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 衣類(いるい): clothes, clothing, garments 類(たぐい): a kind 類似(るいじ): analogous 類推(るいすい): analogy 種類(しゅるい): variety, kind, type, category, counter for different sorts of things 書類(しょるい): documents, official papers 親類(しんるい): relation, kin 人類(じんるい): mankind, humanity 分類(ぶんるい): classification Kunyomi: たぐ.い Onyomi: ルイ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
lacquer Details Story Dictionary 漆 lacquer Heisig's Water . . . tree . . . umbrella . . . grains of rice. Koohii #1 LACQUER is a type of WATERY type of liquid used to protect items made from TREES, sort of an UMBRELLA of protection. So protective, you can carry around RICE in the LACQUERED, WOODEN product. Koohii #2 Water is falling from a tree onto the umbrella underneath which is protecting the rice underneath it. But it´s completely dry since the umbrella is lacquered. Primitives lacquer, water, water droplets, water pistol, tree, wood, umbrella, grains of rice Kunyomi: うるし Onyomi: シツ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 漆 (うるし)	lacquer 漆 画数14 1001 Details Story Dictionary 漆 lacquer Heisig's Water . . . tree . . . umbrella . . . grains of rice. Koohii #1 LACQUER is a type of WATERY type of liquid used to protect items made from TREES, sort of an UMBRELLA of protection. So protective, you can carry around RICE in the LACQUERED, WOODEN product. Koohii #2 Water is falling from a tree onto the umbrella underneath which is protecting the rice underneath it. But it´s completely dry since the umbrella is lacquered. Primitives lacquer, water, water droplets, water pistol, tree, wood, umbrella, grains of rice Kunyomi: うるし Onyomi: シツ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 漆 (うるし)
knee Details Story Dictionary 膝 knee Heisig's Flesh . . . tree . . . umbrella . . . rice grains. Koohii #1 Before lacquer (#932) was made with water, it was made by draining this body part of fluid: the knee! Koohii #2 Back in ancient Japan, people didn´t have knee pads for things like rollerblading and such (what, come on. Ninjas on rollerblades. Ultimate 90s flashback). Instead, they would simply dip their knees in laquer, and wait until it dried (hence the flesh, and the abscence of any drops of water). Unfortunately, this meant that you would have to wait about 30 minutes after deciding to go rollerblade until you could actually do it (took some time to dry) - and removing it was a serious pain. Primitives knee, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, tree, wood, umbrella, grains of rice 膝(ひざ): knee, lap Kunyomi: ひざ Onyomi: シツ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 膝 (ひざ)	knee 膝 画数13 1002 Details Story Dictionary 膝 knee Heisig's Flesh . . . tree . . . umbrella . . . rice grains. Koohii #1 Before lacquer (#932) was made with water, it was made by draining this body part of fluid: the knee! Koohii #2 Back in ancient Japan, people didn´t have knee pads for things like rollerblading and such (what, come on. Ninjas on rollerblades. Ultimate 90s flashback). Instead, they would simply dip their knees in laquer, and wait until it dried (hence the flesh, and the abscence of any drops of water). Unfortunately, this meant that you would have to wait about 30 minutes after deciding to go rollerblade until you could actually do it (took some time to dry) - and removing it was a serious pain. Primitives knee, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, tree, wood, umbrella, grains of rice 膝(ひざ): knee, lap Kunyomi: ひざ Onyomi: シツ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 膝 (ひざ)
Esq. Details Story Dictionary 様 Esq. Heisig's The abbreviation Esq. will help associate this character with the honorific form of address to which it belongs. Its elements are: tree . . . sheep . . . grains of rice. Note that the final vertical stroke in the element for sheep is extended to form the first stroke for grains of rice. Koohii #1 Here we have the requirements to be counted among the ranks of the noble Esq. You must posses a forested estate, herds of sheep, and granary full of grains of rice. Koohii #2 This is -Sama, a generic high term of respect for someone in an unusual profession. If you met a person that created a wooden sheep that was squeezing a single grain of rice out of its ass, you´d definitely call that person -sama. Because that is impressive. Primitives Esq., tree, wood, sheep, grains of rice 有様(ありさま): state, condition, circumstances, the way things are or should be, truth 一様(いちよう): uniformity, evenness, similarity, equality, impartiality お蔭様で(おかげさまで): Thanks to god, thanks to you ご苦労様(ごくろうさま): Thank you very much for your.... 様(さま): Mr. or Mrs., manner, kind, appearance 左様なら(さようなら): good-bye 仕様(しよう): way, method, resource, remedy, (technical) specification 多様(たよう): diversity, variety 殿様(とのさま): feudal lord 様式(ようしき): style, form, pattern 様相(ようそう): aspect 王様(おうさま): king 神様(かみさま): god 逆様(さかさま): inversion, upside down 様々(さまざま): varied, various 同様(どうよう): identical, equal to, same (kind), like 模様(もよう): pattern, figure, design 様(よう): way, manner, kind, sort, appearance, like, such as, so as to, in order to, so that 様子(ようす): aspect, state, appearance Kunyomi: さま、さん Onyomi: ヨウ、ショウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 様 (さま)	Esq. 様 画数14 1003 Details Story Dictionary 様 Esq. Heisig's The abbreviation Esq. will help associate this character with the honorific form of address to which it belongs. Its elements are: tree . . . sheep . . . grains of rice. Note that the final vertical stroke in the element for sheep is extended to form the first stroke for grains of rice. Koohii #1 Here we have the requirements to be counted among the ranks of the noble Esq. You must posses a forested estate, herds of sheep, and granary full of grains of rice. Koohii #2 This is -Sama, a generic high term of respect for someone in an unusual profession. If you met a person that created a wooden sheep that was squeezing a single grain of rice out of its ass, you´d definitely call that person -sama. Because that is impressive. Primitives Esq., tree, wood, sheep, grains of rice 有様(ありさま): state, condition, circumstances, the way things are or should be, truth 一様(いちよう): uniformity, evenness, similarity, equality, impartiality お蔭様で(おかげさまで): Thanks to god, thanks to you ご苦労様(ごくろうさま): Thank you very much for your.... 様(さま): Mr. or Mrs., manner, kind, appearance 左様なら(さようなら): good-bye 仕様(しよう): way, method, resource, remedy, (technical) specification 多様(たよう): diversity, variety 殿様(とのさま): feudal lord 様式(ようしき): style, form, pattern 様相(ようそう): aspect 王様(おうさま): king 神様(かみさま): god 逆様(さかさま): inversion, upside down 様々(さまざま): varied, various 同様(どうよう): identical, equal to, same (kind), like 模様(もよう): pattern, figure, design 様(よう): way, manner, kind, sort, appearance, like, such as, so as to, in order to, so that 様子(ようす): aspect, state, appearance Kunyomi: さま、さん Onyomi: ヨウ、ショウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 様 (さま)
"request Details Story Dictionary 求 request Heisig's Let the drop in the upper right-hand corner of this character close the right angle off to make an arrowhead. Whenever we find the needle with that drop in an element that has no other special meaning, we will take advantage of this primitive meaning. At the bottom, we see the grains of rice, the vertical line doubling up for the two elements. Do not confuse with petition (Frame 143). Koohii #1 Enemy: ""Any final requests?"" // MacGyver: ""Just an arrowhead and some grains of rice."" (MacGyver then throws the grains of rice at the enemy and uses the arrowhead to cut his hands free from the rope.). Koohii #2 Robin Hood holds his rich victim at arrowpoint and kindly requests that he hands over his grains of rice. Primitives request, arrow, grains of rice 請求(せいきゅう): claim, demand, application, request 求める(もとめる): seek, request, demand, want, wish for, search for 要求(ようきゅう): request, demand, requisition Kunyomi: もと.める Onyomi: キュウ、グ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 求める (もと.める)"	"request 求 画数7 1004 Details Story Dictionary 求 request Heisig's Let the drop in the upper right-hand corner of this character close the right angle off to make an arrowhead. Whenever we find the needle with that drop in an element that has no other special meaning, we will take advantage of this primitive meaning. At the bottom, we see the grains of rice, the vertical line doubling up for the two elements. Do not confuse with petition (Frame 143). Koohii #1 Enemy: ""Any final requests?"" // MacGyver: ""Just an arrowhead and some grains of rice."" (MacGyver then throws the grains of rice at the enemy and uses the arrowhead to cut his hands free from the rope.). Koohii #2 Robin Hood holds his rich victim at arrowpoint and kindly requests that he hands over his grains of rice. Primitives request, arrow, grains of rice 請求(せいきゅう): claim, demand, application, request 求める(もとめる): seek, request, demand, want, wish for, search for 要求(ようきゅう): request, demand, requisition Kunyomi: もと.める Onyomi: キュウ、グ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 求める (もと.める)"
ball Details Story Dictionary 球 ball Heisig's Ball . . . request. Koohii #1 Someone files a request to see the family jewels and, to their surprise, you show them your balls! Koohii #2 The KING REQUESTS your presence at the ball ... game. Primitives ball, king, jewel, ball, request, arrow, grains of rice 眼球(がんきゅう): eyeball 球根(きゅうこん): (plant) bulb 球(きゅう): globe, sphere, ball 球(たま): globe, sphere, ball 地球(ちきゅう): the earth 電球(でんきゅう): light bulb Kunyomi: たま Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 球 (たま)	ball 球 画数11 1005 Details Story Dictionary 球 ball Heisig's Ball . . . request. Koohii #1 Someone files a request to see the family jewels and, to their surprise, you show them your balls! Koohii #2 The KING REQUESTS your presence at the ball ... game. Primitives ball, king, jewel, ball, request, arrow, grains of rice 眼球(がんきゅう): eyeball 球根(きゅうこん): (plant) bulb 球(きゅう): globe, sphere, ball 球(たま): globe, sphere, ball 地球(ちきゅう): the earth 電球(でんきゅう): light bulb Kunyomi: たま Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 球 (たま)
salvation Details Story Dictionary 救 salvation Heisig's Request . . . taskmaster. Koohii #1 Like in the biblical sense, someone looks skyward and makes a request for salvation from this horrible taskmaster... Koohii #2 For salvation you have to request forgiveness from God (the ultimate taskmaster). Primitives salvation, request, arrow, grains of rice, taskmaster 救援(きゅうえん): relief, rescue, reinforcement 救済(きゅうさい): relief, aid, rescue, salvation, help 救い(すくい): help, aid, relief 救助(きゅうじょ): relief, aid, rescue 救う(すくう): rescue from, help out of Kunyomi: すく.う Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 救う (すく.う)	salvation 救 画数11 1006 Details Story Dictionary 救 salvation Heisig's Request . . . taskmaster. Koohii #1 Like in the biblical sense, someone looks skyward and makes a request for salvation from this horrible taskmaster... Koohii #2 For salvation you have to request forgiveness from God (the ultimate taskmaster). Primitives salvation, request, arrow, grains of rice, taskmaster 救援(きゅうえん): relief, rescue, reinforcement 救済(きゅうさい): relief, aid, rescue, salvation, help 救い(すくい): help, aid, relief 救助(きゅうじょ): relief, aid, rescue 救う(すくう): rescue from, help out of Kunyomi: すく.う Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 救う (すく.う)
bamboo Details Story Dictionary 竹 bamboo Heisig's Bamboo grows upwards, like a straight nail, and at each stage of its growth (which legend associates with the arrival of the new moon) there is a jointed rootstock (the first stroke). Two such bamboo stalks are pictured here. * As a primitive, the meaning remains the same, but the vertical lines are severely abbreviated so that they can take their place at the top where, like flowers, they are always to be found. Koohii #1 Pandas like to eat bamboo. I´m using panda as the primitive name when it fits the story. ^__^. Koohii #2 Two reclining victims impaled on bamboo spheres...　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　チク　松竹梅　しょうちくばい(pine, bamboo, plum). Primitives bamboo 竹(たけ): bamboo, middle (of a three-tier ranking system) Kunyomi: たけ Onyomi: チク Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 竹 (たけ)	bamboo 竹 画数6 1007 Details Story Dictionary 竹 bamboo Heisig's Bamboo grows upwards, like a straight nail, and at each stage of its growth (which legend associates with the arrival of the new moon) there is a jointed rootstock (the first stroke). Two such bamboo stalks are pictured here. * As a primitive, the meaning remains the same, but the vertical lines are severely abbreviated so that they can take their place at the top where, like flowers, they are always to be found. Koohii #1 Pandas like to eat bamboo. I´m using panda as the primitive name when it fits the story. ^__^. Koohii #2 Two reclining victims impaled on bamboo spheres...　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　チク　松竹梅　しょうちくばい(pine, bamboo, plum). Primitives bamboo 竹(たけ): bamboo, middle (of a three-tier ranking system) Kunyomi: たけ Onyomi: チク Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 竹 (たけ)
laugh Details Story Dictionary 笑 laugh My Story [Riffles / bamboo + Heavens {天}] When God laughed too hard, he shot an angle to heaven with his rifles That Panda is in *bamboo* *Heaven*! Just look at him laugh! Koohii #1 When the people tried to build a tower of bamboo to reach the heavens, the gods just laughed and laughed. Koohii #2 That Panda is in bamboo heaven! Just look at him laugh! Primitives laugh, bamboo, heavens あざ笑う(あざわらう): to sneer at, to ridicule 可笑しい(おかしい): strange, funny, amusing, ridiculous 微笑(びしょう): smile 笑顔(えがお): smiling face 微笑む(ほほえむ): to smile 笑い(わらい): laugh, laughter, smile 笑う(わらう): laugh Kunyomi: わら.う、え.む Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 笑む (え.む), 笑う (わら.う)	laugh 笑 画数10 1008 Details Story Dictionary 笑 laugh My Story [Riffles / bamboo + Heavens {天}] When God laughed too hard, he shot an angle to heaven with his rifles That Panda is in *bamboo* *Heaven*! Just look at him laugh! Koohii #1 When the people tried to build a tower of bamboo to reach the heavens, the gods just laughed and laughed. Koohii #2 That Panda is in bamboo heaven! Just look at him laugh! Primitives laugh, bamboo, heavens あざ笑う(あざわらう): to sneer at, to ridicule 可笑しい(おかしい): strange, funny, amusing, ridiculous 微笑(びしょう): smile 笑顔(えがお): smiling face 微笑む(ほほえむ): to smile 笑い(わらい): laugh, laughter, smile 笑う(わらう): laugh Kunyomi: わら.う、え.む Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 笑む (え.む), 笑う (わら.う)
bamboo hat Details Story Dictionary 笠 bamboo hat Heisig's Bamboo . . . vase. Koohii #1 The bamboo vase was beautifully crafted, but the tourist didn´t know what it was and wore it as a little bamboo hat. Koohii #2 The bamboo part is easy. Just remember that this kanji refers to those particular bamboo hats that are worn primarily by Buddhist monks, who always seem to stand outside of train stations, collecting alms. Primitives bamboo hat, bamboo, vase, stand up Kunyomi: かさ Onyomi: リュウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:	bamboo hat 笠 画数11 1009 Details Story Dictionary 笠 bamboo hat Heisig's Bamboo . . . vase. Koohii #1 The bamboo vase was beautifully crafted, but the tourist didn´t know what it was and wore it as a little bamboo hat. Koohii #2 The bamboo part is easy. Just remember that this kanji refers to those particular bamboo hats that are worn primarily by Buddhist monks, who always seem to stand outside of train stations, collecting alms. Primitives bamboo hat, bamboo, vase, stand up Kunyomi: かさ Onyomi: リュウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:
"bamboo grass Details Story Dictionary 笹 bamboo grass Heisig's Bamboo . . . generation. Koohii #1 The bamboo generation smokes bamboo grass. Koohii #2 “One of the most attractive aspects of bamboo is that it is a renewable resource; it takes less than a year for a stalk to reach maturity, compared to the decades for most trees, whether needle or broadleaf.” -- Mnemonic : ""bamboo grass is the next bamboo generation"". Primitives bamboo grass, bamboo, generation Kunyomi: ささ Onyomi: Lesson: 26 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"bamboo grass 笹 画数11 1010 Details Story Dictionary 笹 bamboo grass Heisig's Bamboo . . . generation. Koohii #1 The bamboo generation smokes bamboo grass. Koohii #2 “One of the most attractive aspects of bamboo is that it is a renewable resource; it takes less than a year for a stalk to reach maturity, compared to the decades for most trees, whether needle or broadleaf.” -- Mnemonic : ""bamboo grass is the next bamboo generation"". Primitives bamboo grass, bamboo, generation Kunyomi: ささ Onyomi: Lesson: 26 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
stationery Details Story Dictionary 箋 䇳 stationery Heisig's Bamboo . . . float. Note that the drawing of the primitive for float uses the abbreviated form that has become standard in the general-use kanji and as we met it earlier (Frames 393-95). Until such time as typesetting fonts make the adjustment, only the older form has been approved. Here we have opted for the simpler, avant garde drawing. Koohii #1 Note: the spelling should be stationery (= paper, office supplies), not stationary (= not moving). The error is in the original book. Koohii #2 The two fiestas communicated to each other on their respective floats by using bamboo stationery. Primitives stationery, bamboo, float, fiesta, float*, fiesta2 便箋(びんせん): writing paper, stationery Kunyomi: ふだ Onyomi: セン Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	stationery 箋 䇳 画数12 1011 Details Story Dictionary 箋 䇳 stationery Heisig's Bamboo . . . float. Note that the drawing of the primitive for float uses the abbreviated form that has become standard in the general-use kanji and as we met it earlier (Frames 393-95). Until such time as typesetting fonts make the adjustment, only the older form has been approved. Here we have opted for the simpler, avant garde drawing. Koohii #1 Note: the spelling should be stationery (= paper, office supplies), not stationary (= not moving). The error is in the original book. Koohii #2 The two fiestas communicated to each other on their respective floats by using bamboo stationery. Primitives stationery, bamboo, float, fiesta, float*, fiesta2 便箋(びんせん): writing paper, stationery Kunyomi: ふだ Onyomi: セン Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
muscle Details Story Dictionary 筋 muscle Heisig's Bamboo . . . part of the body . . . power. Here we see how the primitive meaning of muscle was derived from the kanji for power. Koohii #1 Muscle is part of the body that gives strength, and can be both supple and tense like the bamboo. Koohii #2 Lifting BAMBOO STICKS is an old way for your BODY to put on lots of MUSCLE. Primitives muscle, bamboo, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, power, muscle, arnold 粗筋(あらすじ): outline, summary 大筋(おおすじ): outline, summary 一筋(ひとすき): a line, earnestly, blindly, straightforwardly 筋肉(きんにく): muscle, sinew 筋(すじ): muscle, string, line, stripe, plot, plan, sinew Kunyomi: すじ Onyomi: キン Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 筋 (すじ)	muscle 筋 画数12 1012 Details Story Dictionary 筋 muscle Heisig's Bamboo . . . part of the body . . . power. Here we see how the primitive meaning of muscle was derived from the kanji for power. Koohii #1 Muscle is part of the body that gives strength, and can be both supple and tense like the bamboo. Koohii #2 Lifting BAMBOO STICKS is an old way for your BODY to put on lots of MUSCLE. Primitives muscle, bamboo, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, power, muscle, arnold 粗筋(あらすじ): outline, summary 大筋(おおすじ): outline, summary 一筋(ひとすき): a line, earnestly, blindly, straightforwardly 筋肉(きんにく): muscle, sinew 筋(すじ): muscle, string, line, stripe, plot, plan, sinew Kunyomi: すじ Onyomi: キン Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 筋 (すじ)
box Details Story Dictionary 箱 box My Story Take the 2 *rifles* off your *partners* ammo box, so that you can reload. GO! GO! GO! Koohii #1 The best kind of BOX is made from BAMBOO sticks that are INTER-laced to make it air tight. Just picture such a box and you´ve mastered this kanji. Koohii #2 I think of a box made of inter-locking of bamboo strips. Primitives box , bamboo, inter, Inter Milan, tree, wood, eye 箱(はこ): box Kunyomi: はこ Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 箱 (はこ)	box 箱 画数15 1013 Details Story Dictionary 箱 box My Story Take the 2 *rifles* off your *partners* ammo box, so that you can reload. GO! GO! GO! Koohii #1 The best kind of BOX is made from BAMBOO sticks that are INTER-laced to make it air tight. Just picture such a box and you´ve mastered this kanji. Koohii #2 I think of a box made of inter-locking of bamboo strips. Primitives box , bamboo, inter, Inter Milan, tree, wood, eye 箱(はこ): box Kunyomi: はこ Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 箱 (はこ)
writing brush Details Story Dictionary 筆 writing brush Heisig's Bamboo . . . brush. Koohii #1 Bamboo is the best material from which to make a brush if you want it to be a writing brush. Koohii #2 Bamboo would make an excellent writing brush as the ink could flow through the hollow center like an ink pen... 　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ヒツ　鉛筆　えんぴつ(lead pencil). Primitives writing brush, bamboo, brush 執筆(しっぴつ): writing 随筆(ずいひつ): essays, miscellaneous writings 筆記(ひっき): (taking) notes, copying 筆者(ひっしゃ): writer, author 筆(ふで): writing brush 鉛筆(えんぴつ): pencil 万年筆(まんねんひつ): fountain pen Kunyomi: ふで Onyomi: ヒツ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 筆 (ふで)	writing brush 筆 画数12 1014 Details Story Dictionary 筆 writing brush Heisig's Bamboo . . . brush. Koohii #1 Bamboo is the best material from which to make a brush if you want it to be a writing brush. Koohii #2 Bamboo would make an excellent writing brush as the ink could flow through the hollow center like an ink pen... 　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ヒツ　鉛筆　えんぴつ(lead pencil). Primitives writing brush, bamboo, brush 執筆(しっぴつ): writing 随筆(ずいひつ): essays, miscellaneous writings 筆記(ひっき): (taking) notes, copying 筆者(ひっしゃ): writer, author 筆(ふで): writing brush 鉛筆(えんぴつ): pencil 万年筆(まんねんひつ): fountain pen Kunyomi: ふで Onyomi: ヒツ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 筆 (ふで)
cylinder Details Story Dictionary 筒 cylinder Heisig's Bamboo . . . monk. Koohii #1 Seriously, all BAMBOO sticks look the SAME, just long CYLINDERS. Should the story be more complicated? Koohii #2 Fully-grown bamboo consists of a number of cylinder-like sections, all exactly the same. Primitives cylinder, bamboo, same, monks, hood, one, mouth 筒(つつ): pipe, tube 水筒(すいとう): canteen, flask, water bottle 封筒(ふうとう): envelope Kunyomi: つつ Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 筒 (つつ)	cylinder 筒 画数12 1015 Details Story Dictionary 筒 cylinder Heisig's Bamboo . . . monk. Koohii #1 Seriously, all BAMBOO sticks look the SAME, just long CYLINDERS. Should the story be more complicated? Koohii #2 Fully-grown bamboo consists of a number of cylinder-like sections, all exactly the same. Primitives cylinder, bamboo, same, monks, hood, one, mouth 筒(つつ): pipe, tube 水筒(すいとう): canteen, flask, water bottle 封筒(ふうとう): envelope Kunyomi: つつ Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 筒 (つつ)
"equal /etc./plural Details Story Dictionary 等 equal /etc./plural My Story ""So what'd you see in Japan?"" - ""*Bamboo*, *temples*...#etc.#"" Koohii #1 The Bamboo Buddhist Temple has bamboo buddhas, bamboo buildings, bamboo benches, bamboo beds, bamboo bowls, etc. etc. etc. Koohii #2 So what´d you see in Japan? - ""Bamboo, temples...etc."". Primitives etc., bamboo, Buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue 高等学校(こうとうがっこう): senior high school 対等(たいとう): equivalent 等(とう): et cetera, etc., and the like 等級(とうきゅう): grade, class 同等(どうとう): equality, equal, same rights, same rank 彼等(かれら): they (usually male) 高等(こうとう): high class, high grade 上等(じょうとう): superiority, first-class, very good 等分(とうぶん): division into equal parts 等(など): etc., and the like 等しい(ひとしい): equal, similar, like, equivalent 平等(びょうどう): equality, impartiality, evenness Kunyomi: ひと.しい、など、-ら Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 等しい (ひと.しい)"	"equal /etc./plural 等 画数12 1016 Details Story Dictionary 等 equal /etc./plural My Story ""So what'd you see in Japan?"" - ""*Bamboo*, *temples*...#etc.#"" Koohii #1 The Bamboo Buddhist Temple has bamboo buddhas, bamboo buildings, bamboo benches, bamboo beds, bamboo bowls, etc. etc. etc. Koohii #2 So what´d you see in Japan? - ""Bamboo, temples...etc."". Primitives etc., bamboo, Buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue 高等学校(こうとうがっこう): senior high school 対等(たいとう): equivalent 等(とう): et cetera, etc., and the like 等級(とうきゅう): grade, class 同等(どうとう): equality, equal, same rights, same rank 彼等(かれら): they (usually male) 高等(こうとう): high class, high grade 上等(じょうとう): superiority, first-class, very good 等分(とうぶん): division into equal parts 等(など): etc., and the like 等しい(ひとしい): equal, similar, like, equivalent 平等(びょうどう): equality, impartiality, evenness Kunyomi: ひと.しい、など、-ら Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 等しい (ひと.しい)"
calculate Details Story Dictionary 算 calculate Heisig's Bamboo . . . eyes . . . two hands. Koohii #1 Before the time of digital calculators, people used old school calculators made of bamboo (abacus). It´s not as easy as a calculator, but you don´t need any batteries either. All you need are your eyes and your two hands. Koohii #2 Tip : you may see this as an Abacus, which is used to calculate. This particular ancient chinese Abacus has eyeballs in place of beads, and its frame is made of bamboo. You´d be amazed at how fast people can calculate with this, especially if they can use both hands at once to move the ... eyeballs. Primitives calculate, bamboo, eye, two hands 暗算(あんざん): mental arithmetic 換算(かんさん): conversion, change, exchange 決算(けっさん): balance sheet, settlement of accounts 採算(さいさん): profit 清算(せいさん): liquidation, settlement 足し算(たしざん): addition 割り算(わりざん): division (math) 掛け算(かけざん): multiplication 計算(けいさん): calculation, reckoning 算数(さんすう): arithmetic 算盤(そろばん): abacus 引算(ひきざん): subtraction 予算(よさん): estimate, budget 割算(わりざん): (mathematics) division Kunyomi: そろ Onyomi: サン Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	calculate 算 画数14 1017 Details Story Dictionary 算 calculate Heisig's Bamboo . . . eyes . . . two hands. Koohii #1 Before the time of digital calculators, people used old school calculators made of bamboo (abacus). It´s not as easy as a calculator, but you don´t need any batteries either. All you need are your eyes and your two hands. Koohii #2 Tip : you may see this as an Abacus, which is used to calculate. This particular ancient chinese Abacus has eyeballs in place of beads, and its frame is made of bamboo. You´d be amazed at how fast people can calculate with this, especially if they can use both hands at once to move the ... eyeballs. Primitives calculate, bamboo, eye, two hands 暗算(あんざん): mental arithmetic 換算(かんさん): conversion, change, exchange 決算(けっさん): balance sheet, settlement of accounts 採算(さいさん): profit 清算(せいさん): liquidation, settlement 足し算(たしざん): addition 割り算(わりざん): division (math) 掛け算(かけざん): multiplication 計算(けいさん): calculation, reckoning 算数(さんすう): arithmetic 算盤(そろばん): abacus 引算(ひきざん): subtraction 予算(よさん): estimate, budget 割算(わりざん): (mathematics) division Kunyomi: そろ Onyomi: サン Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
solution Details Story Dictionary 答 solution Heisig's Bamboo . . . fit. Koohii #1 The solution to this puzzle is, like the match stick game, to make the bamboo pieces fit together. Koohii #2 For the frustrated housewife the solution came in form of a BAMBOO stick that FITS her well. Primitives solution, bamboo, fit, meeting, umbrella, one, mouth 返答(へんとう): reply 解答(かいとう): answer, solution 回答(かいとう): reply, answer 答(こたえ): answer, response 答案(とうあん): examination paper, examination script 問答(もんどう): questions and answers, dialogue 答え(こたえ): answer (noun) 答える(こたえる): to answer, to reply Kunyomi: こた.える、こた.え Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 答え (こた.え), 答える (こた.える)	solution 答 画数12 1018 Details Story Dictionary 答 solution Heisig's Bamboo . . . fit. Koohii #1 The solution to this puzzle is, like the match stick game, to make the bamboo pieces fit together. Koohii #2 For the frustrated housewife the solution came in form of a BAMBOO stick that FITS her well. Primitives solution, bamboo, fit, meeting, umbrella, one, mouth 返答(へんとう): reply 解答(かいとう): answer, solution 回答(かいとう): reply, answer 答(こたえ): answer, response 答案(とうあん): examination paper, examination script 問答(もんどう): questions and answers, dialogue 答え(こたえ): answer (noun) 答える(こたえる): to answer, to reply Kunyomi: こた.える、こた.え Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 答え (こた.え), 答える (こた.える)
scheme Details Story Dictionary 策 scheme Heisig's Bamboo . . . belted tree (See frame 446). Koohii #1 (Elaboration of jameserb´s story:) A clever scheme from Wile E Coyote -- he ties one of those rubber belts to some trees and uses it to launch a bamboo spear at the roadrunner... Koohii #2 The temples in kyoto belt bamboo around trees in a scheme to protect them from the huge number of tourists. (true story)-----------対策　　たいさく　　measure, countermeasure. Primitives scheme, bamboo, tree, wood, belt 策(さく): plan, policy 政策(せいさく): political measures, policy 方策(ほうさく): plan, policy 対策(たいさく): counter-plan, counter-measure Kunyomi: Onyomi: サク Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	scheme 策 画数12 1019 Details Story Dictionary 策 scheme Heisig's Bamboo . . . belted tree (See frame 446). Koohii #1 (Elaboration of jameserb´s story:) A clever scheme from Wile E Coyote -- he ties one of those rubber belts to some trees and uses it to launch a bamboo spear at the roadrunner... Koohii #2 The temples in kyoto belt bamboo around trees in a scheme to protect them from the huge number of tourists. (true story)-----------対策　　たいさく　　measure, countermeasure. Primitives scheme, bamboo, tree, wood, belt 策(さく): plan, policy 政策(せいさく): political measures, policy 方策(ほうさく): plan, policy 対策(たいさく): counter-plan, counter-measure Kunyomi: Onyomi: サク Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
register Details Story Dictionary 簿 register Heisig's Bamboo . . . water . . . acupuncturist. Koohii #1 Note : the keyword is not a verb, think of a record book. This acupuncturist who uses bamboo in place of flowers to dilute water into his patients (see frame 227), managed somehow to appear on the register of acupuncturists. Chances are, he won´t stay on the register for long. My image is close to that of gorgon´s story. Koohii #2 This doctor dilutes (see 227) his patients with bamboo stalks rather than the flowers of a standard diluting acupuncturist hence he needs to be on the Bamboo Accumpunturist Diltuers (BAD) register. Pumping that much water into a body can be dangerous; see the huge bamboo stems with gallons of water sloshing in and out of the patient. Primitives register, bamboo, water, water droplets, water pistol, acupuncturist, specialty, drop, ten, needle, rice field, brains, glue 名簿(めいぼ): register of names Kunyomi: Onyomi: ボ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	register 簿 画数19 1020 Details Story Dictionary 簿 register Heisig's Bamboo . . . water . . . acupuncturist. Koohii #1 Note : the keyword is not a verb, think of a record book. This acupuncturist who uses bamboo in place of flowers to dilute water into his patients (see frame 227), managed somehow to appear on the register of acupuncturists. Chances are, he won´t stay on the register for long. My image is close to that of gorgon´s story. Koohii #2 This doctor dilutes (see 227) his patients with bamboo stalks rather than the flowers of a standard diluting acupuncturist hence he needs to be on the Bamboo Accumpunturist Diltuers (BAD) register. Pumping that much water into a body can be dangerous; see the huge bamboo stems with gallons of water sloshing in and out of the patient. Primitives register, bamboo, water, water droplets, water pistol, acupuncturist, specialty, drop, ten, needle, rice field, brains, glue 名簿(めいぼ): register of names Kunyomi: Onyomi: ボ Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
fabricate Details Story Dictionary 築 fabricate Heisig's Bamboo . . . craft . . . mediocre . . . wood/tree. Koohii #1 Bamboo crafting is a mediocre substitute for wood when you are building or fabricating a house. While it may look good and might attract a chick (ちく) or two, the kids´ll (きず) just tear it to pieces as its not sturdy enough. Koohii #2 A bamboo fabrication is a mediocre substitute for wood. Primitives fabricate, bamboo, barge, craft, mediocre, wind, drop, tree, wood 築く(きずく): to build, to pile up, to amass 新築(しんちく): new building, new construction 建築(けんちく): construction, architecture Kunyomi: きず.く Onyomi: チク Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 築く (きず.く)	fabricate 築 画数16 1021 Details Story Dictionary 築 fabricate Heisig's Bamboo . . . craft . . . mediocre . . . wood/tree. Koohii #1 Bamboo crafting is a mediocre substitute for wood when you are building or fabricating a house. While it may look good and might attract a chick (ちく) or two, the kids´ll (きず) just tear it to pieces as its not sturdy enough. Koohii #2 A bamboo fabrication is a mediocre substitute for wood. Primitives fabricate, bamboo, barge, craft, mediocre, wind, drop, tree, wood 築く(きずく): to build, to pile up, to amass 新築(しんちく): new building, new construction 建築(けんちく): construction, architecture Kunyomi: きず.く Onyomi: チク Lesson: 26 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 築く (きず.く)
basket Details Story Dictionary 篭 籠 basket Heisig's Bamboo . . . dragon. Note that the older (and still official) form of this kanji uses the old character for dragon 龍, which is good to learn and is fun to write in any case. It is made up of five primitive elements: vase . . . flesh . . . slingshot . . . fishhook (enclosure) . . . three. Koohii #1 The only cage that can keep a dragon is made of bamboo. Koohii #2 A bamboo cage won´t hold a dragon! Primitives cage, bamboo, dragon, vase, stand up, eel, sun, day 篭る(こもる): to seclude oneself, to be confined in, to be implied, to be stuffy Kunyomi: かご、こ.める、こも.る、こ.む Onyomi: ロウ、ル Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	basket 篭 籠 画数16 1022 Details Story Dictionary 篭 籠 basket Heisig's Bamboo . . . dragon. Note that the older (and still official) form of this kanji uses the old character for dragon 龍, which is good to learn and is fun to write in any case. It is made up of five primitive elements: vase . . . flesh . . . slingshot . . . fishhook (enclosure) . . . three. Koohii #1 The only cage that can keep a dragon is made of bamboo. Koohii #2 A bamboo cage won´t hold a dragon! Primitives cage, bamboo, dragon, vase, stand up, eel, sun, day 篭る(こもる): to seclude oneself, to be confined in, to be implied, to be stuffy Kunyomi: かご、こ.める、こも.る、こ.む Onyomi: ロウ、ル Lesson: 26 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
"person Details Story Dictionary 人 person Heisig's The character for enter (Frame 842) showed someone walking inwards (in terms of the direction of writing), the one for person, shown here, represents someone walking outwards. * As a primitive, it can keep its kanji form except when it appears to the left (its normal position), where it is made to stand up in the form ⺅ (Similar to イ). The primitive meaning is another matter. The abstract notion of person so often has a relation to the meaning of the kanji that confusion readily sets in. So many of the previous stories have included people in them that simply to use person for a primitive meaning would be risky. We need to be more specific, to focus on one particular person. Try to choose someone who has not figured in the stories so far, perhaps a colorful member of the family or a friend whom you have known for a long time. That individual will appear again and again, so be sure to choose someone who excites your imagination. Koohii #1 Behold Mister T (of ""A-Team"" fame)! I chose Mr.T because he´s sure to make amusing stories. He is a very versatile character since he´s both the big, tough guy and the “moralistic” person, telling kids not “to do drugs or alcohol”. He is easy to imagine, the heavy gold chains are probably the most prominent feature of the character. And last but not least you can always pepper your story with the famous line “I pity da foo!” * Fittingly, on the left side of the kanji, it looks like a “T”. Koohii #2 [I appreciate some people´s occasional habit of using P for person in shared stories. That makes it easier to substitute Mr. T, Captain Picard, or whomever else a student is using as person.]. Primitives person 商人(あきうど): trader, shopkeeper, merchant 他人(あだびと): another person, unrelated person, outsider, stranger 一人(いちにん): one person 玄人(くろうと): expert, professional, geisha, prostitute 故人(こじん): the deceased, old friend 殺人(さつじん): murder 産婦人科(さんふじんか): maternity and gynecology department 主人公(しゅじんこう): protagonist, main character, hero(ine) (of a story), head of household 証人(しょうにん): witness 使用人(しようにん): employee, servant 人(じん): man, person, people 人格(じんかく): personality, character, individuality 人材(じんざい): man of talent 新人(しんじん): new face, newcomer 人体(じんたい): human body 人民(じんみん): people, public 人目(じんもく): glimpse, public gaze 知人(ちじん): friend, acquaintance 仲人(ちゅうにん): go-between, matchmaker 当人(とうにん): the one concerned, the said person 二人(ににん): two persons, two people, pair, couple 人情(にんじょう): humanity, empathy, kindness, sympathy, human nature, common sense, customs and manners 万人(ばんじん): all people, everybody, 10000 people 人柄(ひとがら): personality, character, personal appearance, gentility 人質(ひとじち): hostage, prisoner 一人でに(ひとりでに): by itself, automatically, naturally 男の人(おとこのひと): man 女の人(おんなのひと): woman 恋人(こいびと): lover, sweetheart 個人(こじん): individual, personal, private 詩人(しじん): poet 商人(しょうにん): trader, shopkeeper, merchant 職人(しょくにん): worker, mechanic, artisan, craftsman 素人(しろうと): amateur, novice 人工(じんこう): artificial, man-made, human work, human skill, artificiality 人種(じんしゅ): race (of people) 人生(じんせい): (human) life (i.e. conception to death) 人造(じんぞう): man-made, synthetic, artificial 人物(じんぶつ): character, personality, person, man, personage, talented man 人文科学(じんぶんかがく): social sciences, humanities 人命(じんめい): (human) life 人類(じんるい): mankind, humanity 成人(せいじん): adult 他人(たにん): another person, unrelated person, outsider, stranger 人気(にんき): popular, business conditions, popular feeling 人間(にんげん): human being, man, person 犯人(はんにん): offender, criminal 美人(びじん): beautiful person (woman) 人込み(ひとごみ): crowd of people 人差指(ひとさしゆび): index finger 人通り(ひとどおり): pedestrian traffic 一人一人(ひとりひとり): one by one, each, one at a time 夫人(ふじん): wife, Mrs., madam 婦人(ふじん): woman, female 本人(ほんにん): the person himself 名人(めいじん): master, expert 役人(やくにん): government official 友人(ゆうじん): friend 老人(ろうじん): the aged, old person 人口(じんこう): population 人形(にんぎょう): doll 大人(おとな): adult 外国人(がいこくじん): foreigner 御主人(ごしゅじん): (polite) your husband, her husband 人(ひと): man, person, human being, mankind, people, character, personality, true man, man of talent, adult, other people, messenger, visitor 一人(ひとり): one person 二人(ふたり): two persons, two people, pair, couple Kunyomi: ひと、-り、-と Onyomi: ジン、ニン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 人道 (じんどう), 人員 (じんいん), 成人 (せいじん), 人 (ひと)"	"person 人 画数2 1023 Details Story Dictionary 人 person Heisig's The character for enter (Frame 842) showed someone walking inwards (in terms of the direction of writing), the one for person, shown here, represents someone walking outwards. * As a primitive, it can keep its kanji form except when it appears to the left (its normal position), where it is made to stand up in the form ⺅ (Similar to イ). The primitive meaning is another matter. The abstract notion of person so often has a relation to the meaning of the kanji that confusion readily sets in. So many of the previous stories have included people in them that simply to use person for a primitive meaning would be risky. We need to be more specific, to focus on one particular person. Try to choose someone who has not figured in the stories so far, perhaps a colorful member of the family or a friend whom you have known for a long time. That individual will appear again and again, so be sure to choose someone who excites your imagination. Koohii #1 Behold Mister T (of ""A-Team"" fame)! I chose Mr.T because he´s sure to make amusing stories. He is a very versatile character since he´s both the big, tough guy and the “moralistic” person, telling kids not “to do drugs or alcohol”. He is easy to imagine, the heavy gold chains are probably the most prominent feature of the character. And last but not least you can always pepper your story with the famous line “I pity da foo!” * Fittingly, on the left side of the kanji, it looks like a “T”. Koohii #2 [I appreciate some people´s occasional habit of using P for person in shared stories. That makes it easier to substitute Mr. T, Captain Picard, or whomever else a student is using as person.]. Primitives person 商人(あきうど): trader, shopkeeper, merchant 他人(あだびと): another person, unrelated person, outsider, stranger 一人(いちにん): one person 玄人(くろうと): expert, professional, geisha, prostitute 故人(こじん): the deceased, old friend 殺人(さつじん): murder 産婦人科(さんふじんか): maternity and gynecology department 主人公(しゅじんこう): protagonist, main character, hero(ine) (of a story), head of household 証人(しょうにん): witness 使用人(しようにん): employee, servant 人(じん): man, person, people 人格(じんかく): personality, character, individuality 人材(じんざい): man of talent 新人(しんじん): new face, newcomer 人体(じんたい): human body 人民(じんみん): people, public 人目(じんもく): glimpse, public gaze 知人(ちじん): friend, acquaintance 仲人(ちゅうにん): go-between, matchmaker 当人(とうにん): the one concerned, the said person 二人(ににん): two persons, two people, pair, couple 人情(にんじょう): humanity, empathy, kindness, sympathy, human nature, common sense, customs and manners 万人(ばんじん): all people, everybody, 10000 people 人柄(ひとがら): personality, character, personal appearance, gentility 人質(ひとじち): hostage, prisoner 一人でに(ひとりでに): by itself, automatically, naturally 男の人(おとこのひと): man 女の人(おんなのひと): woman 恋人(こいびと): lover, sweetheart 個人(こじん): individual, personal, private 詩人(しじん): poet 商人(しょうにん): trader, shopkeeper, merchant 職人(しょくにん): worker, mechanic, artisan, craftsman 素人(しろうと): amateur, novice 人工(じんこう): artificial, man-made, human work, human skill, artificiality 人種(じんしゅ): race (of people) 人生(じんせい): (human) life (i.e. conception to death) 人造(じんぞう): man-made, synthetic, artificial 人物(じんぶつ): character, personality, person, man, personage, talented man 人文科学(じんぶんかがく): social sciences, humanities 人命(じんめい): (human) life 人類(じんるい): mankind, humanity 成人(せいじん): adult 他人(たにん): another person, unrelated person, outsider, stranger 人気(にんき): popular, business conditions, popular feeling 人間(にんげん): human being, man, person 犯人(はんにん): offender, criminal 美人(びじん): beautiful person (woman) 人込み(ひとごみ): crowd of people 人差指(ひとさしゆび): index finger 人通り(ひとどおり): pedestrian traffic 一人一人(ひとりひとり): one by one, each, one at a time 夫人(ふじん): wife, Mrs., madam 婦人(ふじん): woman, female 本人(ほんにん): the person himself 名人(めいじん): master, expert 役人(やくにん): government official 友人(ゆうじん): friend 老人(ろうじん): the aged, old person 人口(じんこう): population 人形(にんぎょう): doll 大人(おとな): adult 外国人(がいこくじん): foreigner 御主人(ごしゅじん): (polite) your husband, her husband 人(ひと): man, person, human being, mankind, people, character, personality, true man, man of talent, adult, other people, messenger, visitor 一人(ひとり): one person 二人(ふたり): two persons, two people, pair, couple Kunyomi: ひと、-り、-と Onyomi: ジン、ニン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 人道 (じんどう), 人員 (じんいん), 成人 (せいじん), 人 (ひと)"
"assistant Details Story Dictionary 佐 assistant Heisig's Person . . . left. Koohii #1 Mr T´s assistant is on his left. Why? Because Mr T has this bad habit of suddenly extending his right arm (what with all the boxing that he did), and his assistant got inadvertently punched in the face more than once (ouch). So now his assistant is always to his left side, much safer - ""Stay on my left, foo!"". Koohii #2 On your right is your ""right-hand man"" that you credit for all your success....on the left...... is your assistant who does all the grunt work and gets no credit for anything... Primitives assistant, person, left, by one’s side, craft 佐(さ): help Kunyomi: Onyomi: サ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"assistant 佐 画数7 1024 Details Story Dictionary 佐 assistant Heisig's Person . . . left. Koohii #1 Mr T´s assistant is on his left. Why? Because Mr T has this bad habit of suddenly extending his right arm (what with all the boxing that he did), and his assistant got inadvertently punched in the face more than once (ouch). So now his assistant is always to his left side, much safer - ""Stay on my left, foo!"". Koohii #2 On your right is your ""right-hand man"" that you credit for all your success....on the left...... is your assistant who does all the grunt work and gets no credit for anything... Primitives assistant, person, left, by one’s side, craft 佐(さ): help Kunyomi: Onyomi: サ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"partner Details Story Dictionary 侶 partner Heisig's Person . . . spine. Koohii #1 Mr. T don´t take a partner, especially one with no spine. ""I pity da foo got no spine"", he says. Koohii #2 As a PARTNER, I want a PERSON with a strong SPINE. Primitives partner, person, spine, mouth, drop, mouth, mouth2 Kunyomi: とも Onyomi: リョ、ロ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"partner 侶 画数9 1025 Details Story Dictionary 侶 partner Heisig's Person . . . spine. Koohii #1 Mr. T don´t take a partner, especially one with no spine. ""I pity da foo got no spine"", he says. Koohii #2 As a PARTNER, I want a PERSON with a strong SPINE. Primitives partner, person, spine, mouth, drop, mouth, mouth2 Kunyomi: とも Onyomi: リョ、ロ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
however Details Story Dictionary 但 however Heisig's Person . . . nightbreak. Koohii #1 However drunk Mr T is when he comes back to his place, he always get up at nightbreak. “I pity da foo who gets up after nightbreak !”, says Mr. T. Koohii #2 MR.T leads a busy life, however he always makes sure to be in bed by NIGHTBREAK, however much he might want to stay up watching A-Team re-runs. Primitives however, person, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor 但し(ただし): but, however, provided that Kunyomi: ただ.し Onyomi: タン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 但し (ただ.し)	however 但 画数7 1026 Details Story Dictionary 但 however Heisig's Person . . . nightbreak. Koohii #1 However drunk Mr T is when he comes back to his place, he always get up at nightbreak. “I pity da foo who gets up after nightbreak !”, says Mr. T. Koohii #2 MR.T leads a busy life, however he always makes sure to be in bed by NIGHTBREAK, however much he might want to stay up watching A-Team re-runs. Primitives however, person, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor 但し(ただし): but, however, provided that Kunyomi: ただ.し Onyomi: タン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 但し (ただ.し)
dwell Details Story Dictionary 住 dwell Heisig's Person . . . candlestick. Koohii #1 When Mr T shows people round his dwelling he takes a big candlestick (with a candle in it!) so that the light shows off his collection of bling bling jewellery. Koohii #2 Mister T dwells in a big brass candlestick, the flame of which serves as a beacon for the boats in the nearby harbour. Sometimes in the morning, Mister T has to clear the wax that has landed and solidified in front of the door. Primitives dwell, person, candlestick, lord, drop, king, jewel, ball 移住(いじゅう): migration, immigration 居住(きょじゅう): residence 住(じゅう): dwelling, living 衣食住(いしょくじゅう): necessities of life (food, clothing, etc.) 住居(じゅうきょ): dwelling, house, residence, address 住宅(じゅうたく): resident, housing 住民(じゅうみん): citizens, inhabitants, residents, population 住まい(すまい): dwelling, house, residence, address 住所(じゅうしょ): address 住む(すむ): abide, reside, live in, inhabit, dwell Kunyomi: す.む、す.まう、-ず.まい Onyomi: ジュウ、ヂュウ、チュウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 住まう (す.まう), 住む (す.む)	dwell 住 画数7 1027 Details Story Dictionary 住 dwell Heisig's Person . . . candlestick. Koohii #1 When Mr T shows people round his dwelling he takes a big candlestick (with a candle in it!) so that the light shows off his collection of bling bling jewellery. Koohii #2 Mister T dwells in a big brass candlestick, the flame of which serves as a beacon for the boats in the nearby harbour. Sometimes in the morning, Mister T has to clear the wax that has landed and solidified in front of the door. Primitives dwell, person, candlestick, lord, drop, king, jewel, ball 移住(いじゅう): migration, immigration 居住(きょじゅう): residence 住(じゅう): dwelling, living 衣食住(いしょくじゅう): necessities of life (food, clothing, etc.) 住居(じゅうきょ): dwelling, house, residence, address 住宅(じゅうたく): resident, housing 住民(じゅうみん): citizens, inhabitants, residents, population 住まい(すまい): dwelling, house, residence, address 住所(じゅうしょ): address 住む(すむ): abide, reside, live in, inhabit, dwell Kunyomi: す.む、す.まう、-ず.まい Onyomi: ジュウ、ヂュウ、チュウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 住まう (す.まう), 住む (す.む)
rank Details Story Dictionary 位 rank My Story Rank: A *person*'s *stand*ing Koohii #1 Mr T ranks first position in the stand-up competition (doing knee flexions). Just picture him doing hundreds of these while the rest of the participants are already completely exhausted after a mere hundred. Koohii #2 Rank A person´s standing. Primitives rank, person, vase, stand up 位地(いち): place, situation, position, location 位置(いち): location, position 下位(かい): low rank, subordinate, lower order (e.g. byte) 上位(じょうい): superior (rank not class), higher order (e.g. byte), host computer (of connected device) 優位(ゆうい): predominance, ascendancy, superiority 位(くらい): grade, rank, court order, dignity, nobility, situation, throne, crown, occupying a position, about, almost, as, rather, at least, enough to 単位(たんい): unit, denomination, credit (in school) 地位(ちい): (social) position, status Kunyomi: くらい、ぐらい Onyomi: イ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 位 (くらい)	rank 位 画数7 1028 Details Story Dictionary 位 rank My Story Rank: A *person*'s *stand*ing Koohii #1 Mr T ranks first position in the stand-up competition (doing knee flexions). Just picture him doing hundreds of these while the rest of the participants are already completely exhausted after a mere hundred. Koohii #2 Rank A person´s standing. Primitives rank, person, vase, stand up 位地(いち): place, situation, position, location 位置(いち): location, position 下位(かい): low rank, subordinate, lower order (e.g. byte) 上位(じょうい): superior (rank not class), higher order (e.g. byte), host computer (of connected device) 優位(ゆうい): predominance, ascendancy, superiority 位(くらい): grade, rank, court order, dignity, nobility, situation, throne, crown, occupying a position, about, almost, as, rather, at least, enough to 単位(たんい): unit, denomination, credit (in school) 地位(ちい): (social) position, status Kunyomi: くらい、ぐらい Onyomi: イ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 位 (くらい)
go-between Details Story Dictionary 仲 go-between Heisig's Person . . . in. Koohii #1 When negotiating a hostage situation, Mr. T acted as the go-between, or person in the middle, for law enforcement and the terrorist. Koohii #2 Go-between The person in the middle. Primitives go-between, person, in, stick, mouth 仲人(ちゅうにん): go-between, matchmaker 仲(なか): relation, relationship 仲直り(なかなおり): reconciliation, make peace with 仲間(なかま): company, fellow, colleague, associate, comrade, mate, group, circle of friends, partner 仲良し(なかよし): intimate friend, close friend Kunyomi: なか Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 仲 (なか)	go-between 仲 画数6 1029 Details Story Dictionary 仲 go-between Heisig's Person . . . in. Koohii #1 When negotiating a hostage situation, Mr. T acted as the go-between, or person in the middle, for law enforcement and the terrorist. Koohii #2 Go-between The person in the middle. Primitives go-between, person, in, stick, mouth 仲人(ちゅうにん): go-between, matchmaker 仲(なか): relation, relationship 仲直り(なかなおり): reconciliation, make peace with 仲間(なかま): company, fellow, colleague, associate, comrade, mate, group, circle of friends, partner 仲良し(なかよし): intimate friend, close friend Kunyomi: なか Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 仲 (なか)
body Details Story Dictionary 体 body Heisig's Person . . . book. Koohii #1 Mister T works out his body (body-building), using two piles of books (i.e. an exercise that can be done at home with two chairs, similar to push-ups but working mostly the shoulders, trapezius and triceps). Koohii #2 Mr. T works out his body then rips a book apart to test is body. His favorite to destroy is Dianetics. Primitives body, person, origin, book, tree, wood, one 身体(からだ): the body 体付き(からだつき): body build, figure 固体(こたい): solid (body) 字体(じたい): type, font, lettering 主体(しゅたい): subject, main constituent 人体(じんたい): human body 体格(たいかく): physique, constitution 体験(たいけん): personal experience 体力(たいりょく): physical strength 体(てい): appearance, air, condition, state, form 体裁(ていさい): decency, style, form, appearance, show, get-up, format 天体(てんたい): heavenly body 肉体(にくたい): the body, the flesh 物体(ぶったい): body, object 本体(ほんたい): substance, real form, object of worship 立体(りったい): solid body 一体(いったい): one object, one body, generally, what on earth? really? 液体(えきたい): liquid, fluid 気体(きたい): vapour, gas 具体(ぐたい): concrete, tangible, material 個体(こたい): an individual 死体(したい): corpse 重体(じゅうたい): seriously ill, serious condition, critical state 身体(しんたい): body, health 全体(ぜんたい): whole, entirety, whatever (is the matter) 体育(たいいく): physical education, gymnastics, athletics 体温(たいおん): temperature (body) 体系(たいけい): system, organization 体制(たいせい): order, system, structure, set-up, organization 体積(たいせき): capacity, volume 体操(たいそう): gymnastics, physical exercises, calisthenics 大体(だいたい): general, substantially, outline, main point 団体(だんたい): party of tourists 文体(ぶんたい): literary style 体(からだ): appearance, air, condition, state, form Kunyomi: からだ、かたち Onyomi: タイ、テイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 体格 (たいかく), 人体 (じんたい), 主体 (しゅたい), 体 (からだ)	body 体 画数7 1030 Details Story Dictionary 体 body Heisig's Person . . . book. Koohii #1 Mister T works out his body (body-building), using two piles of books (i.e. an exercise that can be done at home with two chairs, similar to push-ups but working mostly the shoulders, trapezius and triceps). Koohii #2 Mr. T works out his body then rips a book apart to test is body. His favorite to destroy is Dianetics. Primitives body, person, origin, book, tree, wood, one 身体(からだ): the body 体付き(からだつき): body build, figure 固体(こたい): solid (body) 字体(じたい): type, font, lettering 主体(しゅたい): subject, main constituent 人体(じんたい): human body 体格(たいかく): physique, constitution 体験(たいけん): personal experience 体力(たいりょく): physical strength 体(てい): appearance, air, condition, state, form 体裁(ていさい): decency, style, form, appearance, show, get-up, format 天体(てんたい): heavenly body 肉体(にくたい): the body, the flesh 物体(ぶったい): body, object 本体(ほんたい): substance, real form, object of worship 立体(りったい): solid body 一体(いったい): one object, one body, generally, what on earth? really? 液体(えきたい): liquid, fluid 気体(きたい): vapour, gas 具体(ぐたい): concrete, tangible, material 個体(こたい): an individual 死体(したい): corpse 重体(じゅうたい): seriously ill, serious condition, critical state 身体(しんたい): body, health 全体(ぜんたい): whole, entirety, whatever (is the matter) 体育(たいいく): physical education, gymnastics, athletics 体温(たいおん): temperature (body) 体系(たいけい): system, organization 体制(たいせい): order, system, structure, set-up, organization 体積(たいせき): capacity, volume 体操(たいそう): gymnastics, physical exercises, calisthenics 大体(だいたい): general, substantially, outline, main point 団体(だんたい): party of tourists 文体(ぶんたい): literary style 体(からだ): appearance, air, condition, state, form Kunyomi: からだ、かたち Onyomi: タイ、テイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 体格 (たいかく), 人体 (じんたい), 主体 (しゅたい), 体 (からだ)
remote Details Story Dictionary 悠 remote Heisig's Person . . . walking stick . . . taskmaster . . . heart. Koohii #1 Mr. T ventured out into a remote area to visit with his wise, old taskmaster who must use a walking stick to get around and originally gave Mr. T the heart to fight crime for the good of the community. Koohii #2 Yoda, the Jedi with the walking stick who was a hard taskmaster for Luke but who had a big heart, was permanently exiled on the remote planet Dagobah. Primitives permanence, remote, person, stick, fred astaire, taskmaster, heart 悠々(ゆうゆう): quiet, calm, leisurely Kunyomi: Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	remote 悠 画数11 1031 Details Story Dictionary 悠 remote Heisig's Person . . . walking stick . . . taskmaster . . . heart. Koohii #1 Mr. T ventured out into a remote area to visit with his wise, old taskmaster who must use a walking stick to get around and originally gave Mr. T the heart to fight crime for the good of the community. Koohii #2 Yoda, the Jedi with the walking stick who was a hard taskmaster for Luke but who had a big heart, was permanently exiled on the remote planet Dagobah. Primitives permanence, remote, person, stick, fred astaire, taskmaster, heart 悠々(ゆうゆう): quiet, calm, leisurely Kunyomi: Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"affair Details Story Dictionary 件 affair My Story [Person + Cow] Well, you may know the *guy* from Monster Musume. He is capable of having an affair with a *cow3! Koohii #1 Note: this kanji refers to event or case. Current Affair headline: Mr. T has affair with cow. ""It´s only animal ´man´ enough for me"". Koohii #2 I´m having a hard time keep straight just which animal Mr. T is having an affair with. chamcham´s story made me realize that Mr. T is not having an ""affair"", he´s having an ""heifair."" Get it? Primitives affair, person, cow 件(くだん): example, precedent, the usual, the said, the above-mentioned, (man) in question 用件(ようけん): business 事件(じけん): event, affair, incident, case, plot, trouble, scandal 条件(じょうけん): conditions, terms Kunyomi: くだん Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"affair 件 画数6 1032 Details Story Dictionary 件 affair My Story [Person + Cow] Well, you may know the *guy* from Monster Musume. He is capable of having an affair with a *cow3! Koohii #1 Note: this kanji refers to event or case. Current Affair headline: Mr. T has affair with cow. ""It´s only animal ´man´ enough for me"". Koohii #2 I´m having a hard time keep straight just which animal Mr. T is having an affair with. chamcham´s story made me realize that Mr. T is not having an ""affair"", he´s having an ""heifair."" Get it? Primitives affair, person, cow 件(くだん): example, precedent, the usual, the said, the above-mentioned, (man) in question 用件(ようけん): business 事件(じけん): event, affair, incident, case, plot, trouble, scandal 条件(じょうけん): conditions, terms Kunyomi: くだん Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
"attend Details Story Dictionary 仕 attend Heisig's Person . . . samurai. The key word means to wait on someone or serve them. Koohii #1 Back in the day, a person who stands beside a samurai is usually attending to them or working for them. Koohii #2 [+fuaburisu] Mr T attends to Tom Cruise in the Last Samurai, who is doing hara-kiri. Imagine Tom Cruise outside in the final scene, stabbing his knife into his stomach, while Mr T looks patiently on. ""I pity da foo....no, really."". Primitives attend, person, samurai 給仕(きゅうじ): office boy (girl), page, waiter 仕上がり(しあがり): finish, end, completion 仕上げ(しあげ): end, finishing touches, being finished 仕上げる(しあげる): to finish up, to complete 仕入れる(しいれる): to lay in stock, to replenish stock, to procure 仕掛け(しかけ): device, trick, mechanism, gadget, (small) scale, half finished, commencement, set up, challenge 仕掛ける(しかける): to commence, to lay (mines), to set (traps), to wage (war), to challenge 仕切る(しきる): to partition, to divide, to mark off, to settle accounts, to toe the mark 仕組み(しくみ): devising, plan, plot, contrivance, construction, arrangement 仕立てる(したてる): to tailor, to make, to prepare, to train, to send (a messenger) 仕付ける(しつける): to be used to a job, to begin to do, to baste, to tack, to plant 仕舞(しまい): end, termination, informal (Noh play) 仕舞う(しまう): to finish, to close, to do something completely, to put away, to put an end to 仕様(しよう): way, method, resource, remedy, (technical) specification 仕える(つかえる): to serve, to work for 奉仕(ほうし): attendance, service 仕上がる(しあがる): be finished 仕方(しかた): method, way 仕事(しごと): work, occupation, employment Kunyomi: つか.える Onyomi: シ、ジ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 仕事 (しごと), 出仕 (しゅつし), 仕える (つか.える)"	"attend 仕 画数5 1033 Details Story Dictionary 仕 attend Heisig's Person . . . samurai. The key word means to wait on someone or serve them. Koohii #1 Back in the day, a person who stands beside a samurai is usually attending to them or working for them. Koohii #2 [+fuaburisu] Mr T attends to Tom Cruise in the Last Samurai, who is doing hara-kiri. Imagine Tom Cruise outside in the final scene, stabbing his knife into his stomach, while Mr T looks patiently on. ""I pity da foo....no, really."". Primitives attend, person, samurai 給仕(きゅうじ): office boy (girl), page, waiter 仕上がり(しあがり): finish, end, completion 仕上げ(しあげ): end, finishing touches, being finished 仕上げる(しあげる): to finish up, to complete 仕入れる(しいれる): to lay in stock, to replenish stock, to procure 仕掛け(しかけ): device, trick, mechanism, gadget, (small) scale, half finished, commencement, set up, challenge 仕掛ける(しかける): to commence, to lay (mines), to set (traps), to wage (war), to challenge 仕切る(しきる): to partition, to divide, to mark off, to settle accounts, to toe the mark 仕組み(しくみ): devising, plan, plot, contrivance, construction, arrangement 仕立てる(したてる): to tailor, to make, to prepare, to train, to send (a messenger) 仕付ける(しつける): to be used to a job, to begin to do, to baste, to tack, to plant 仕舞(しまい): end, termination, informal (Noh play) 仕舞う(しまう): to finish, to close, to do something completely, to put away, to put an end to 仕様(しよう): way, method, resource, remedy, (technical) specification 仕える(つかえる): to serve, to work for 奉仕(ほうし): attendance, service 仕上がる(しあがる): be finished 仕方(しかた): method, way 仕事(しごと): work, occupation, employment Kunyomi: つか.える Onyomi: シ、ジ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 仕事 (しごと), 出仕 (しゅつし), 仕える (つか.える)"
other Details Story Dictionary 他 other Heisig's Person . . . scorpion. Koohii #1 Old latin saying: homo hominis scorpio (people are scorpions to other people). Koohii #2 It´s one or the other: fight Mr. T, or be thrown into the scorpion pit. Primitives other, person, scorpion 他人(あだびと): another person, unrelated person, outsider, stranger 他意(たい): ill will, malice, another intention, secret purpose, ulterior motive, fickleness, double-mindedness 他動詞(たどうし): transitive verb (direct obj) 他方(たほう): another side, different direction, (on) the other hand 他(た): other (especially people and abstract matters) 他人(たにん): another person, unrelated person, outsider, stranger 他(ほか): other (especially places and things) Kunyomi: ほか Onyomi: タ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	other 他 画数5 1034 Details Story Dictionary 他 other Heisig's Person . . . scorpion. Koohii #1 Old latin saying: homo hominis scorpio (people are scorpions to other people). Koohii #2 It´s one or the other: fight Mr. T, or be thrown into the scorpion pit. Primitives other, person, scorpion 他人(あだびと): another person, unrelated person, outsider, stranger 他意(たい): ill will, malice, another intention, secret purpose, ulterior motive, fickleness, double-mindedness 他動詞(たどうし): transitive verb (direct obj) 他方(たほう): another side, different direction, (on) the other hand 他(た): other (especially people and abstract matters) 他人(たにん): another person, unrelated person, outsider, stranger 他(ほか): other (especially places and things) Kunyomi: ほか Onyomi: タ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
"prostrated Details Story Dictionary 伏 prostrated Heisig's Person . . . chihuahua. Koohii #1 Don´t need a silly story for this one: prostration is when a person puts themselves in a low position like a dog, as an extreme gesture of humility. Koohii #2 Mr T has beaten up the chihuahua, who lies prostrated in front of him. ""Now,"" Mr T says, ""I quiero some Taco Bell!"". Primitives prostrated, person, chihuahua, dog, large, drop 起伏(きふく): undulation 降伏(こうふく): capitulation, surrender, submission Kunyomi: ふ.せる、ふ.す Onyomi: フク Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 伏す (ふ.す), 伏せる (ふ.せる)"	"prostrated 伏 画数6 1035 Details Story Dictionary 伏 prostrated Heisig's Person . . . chihuahua. Koohii #1 Don´t need a silly story for this one: prostration is when a person puts themselves in a low position like a dog, as an extreme gesture of humility. Koohii #2 Mr T has beaten up the chihuahua, who lies prostrated in front of him. ""Now,"" Mr T says, ""I quiero some Taco Bell!"". Primitives prostrated, person, chihuahua, dog, large, drop 起伏(きふく): undulation 降伏(こうふく): capitulation, surrender, submission Kunyomi: ふ.せる、ふ.す Onyomi: フク Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 伏す (ふ.す), 伏せる (ふ.せる)"
"transmit Details Story Dictionary 伝 transmit My Story [Person + rising clouds] A *person* who smokes transmits *rising clouds* to those around him/her. (Think second hand smoking). Koohii #1 Mister T transmits a message with rising clouds (smoke) signals, to a nearby American Indian tribe. The smoke signals spell : ""I p-i-t-y y-o-u f-o-o !"". Koohii #2 Hanging one-handed under Cloud City, the Jedi-in-training Luke, uses the force to transmit his distress to Leia. Primitives transmit, person, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall 言伝(ことづて): declaration, hearsay 伝言(つてごと): verbal message, rumor, word 伝説(でんせつ): tradition, legend, folklore 伝達(でんたつ): transmission (e.g. news), communication, delivery 伝来(でんらい): ancestral, hereditary, imported, transmitted, handed down お手伝いさん(おてつだいさん): maid 宣伝(せんでん): propaganda, publicity 伝わる(つたわる): be handed down, be introduced, be transmitted, be circulated, go along, walk along 手伝い(てつだい): help, helper, assistant 伝記(でんき): biography, life story 伝染(でんせん): contagion 伝統(でんとう): tradition, convention 伝える(つたえる): tell, report 手伝う(てつだう): help Kunyomi: つた.わる、つた.える、つた.う、つだ.う、-づた.い、つて Onyomi: デン、テン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 伝う (つた.う), 伝える (つた.える), 伝わる (つた.わる)"	"transmit 伝 画数6 1036 Details Story Dictionary 伝 transmit My Story [Person + rising clouds] A *person* who smokes transmits *rising clouds* to those around him/her. (Think second hand smoking). Koohii #1 Mister T transmits a message with rising clouds (smoke) signals, to a nearby American Indian tribe. The smoke signals spell : ""I p-i-t-y y-o-u f-o-o !"". Koohii #2 Hanging one-handed under Cloud City, the Jedi-in-training Luke, uses the force to transmit his distress to Leia. Primitives transmit, person, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall 言伝(ことづて): declaration, hearsay 伝言(つてごと): verbal message, rumor, word 伝説(でんせつ): tradition, legend, folklore 伝達(でんたつ): transmission (e.g. news), communication, delivery 伝来(でんらい): ancestral, hereditary, imported, transmitted, handed down お手伝いさん(おてつだいさん): maid 宣伝(せんでん): propaganda, publicity 伝わる(つたわる): be handed down, be introduced, be transmitted, be circulated, go along, walk along 手伝い(てつだい): help, helper, assistant 伝記(でんき): biography, life story 伝染(でんせん): contagion 伝統(でんとう): tradition, convention 伝える(つたえる): tell, report 手伝う(てつだう): help Kunyomi: つた.わる、つた.える、つた.う、つだ.う、-づた.い、つて Onyomi: デン、テン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 伝う (つた.う), 伝える (つた.える), 伝わる (つた.わる)"
"Buddha Details Story Dictionary 仏 Buddha Heisig's Person . . . elbow. Koohii #1 Mr. T says, ""I ain´t afraid o´ no foo! I´ll give anyone an elbow to the face, I don´t care if it´s Buddha himself!"". Koohii #2 Buddha is a person who always seems to have his elbows bent. Primitives buddha, person, elbow 仏(ふつ): French 仏像(ぶつぞう): Buddhist image (statue) 仏(ほとけ): Buddha, merciful person, Buddhist image, the dead Kunyomi: ほとけ Onyomi: ブツ、フツ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 仏 (ほとけ)"	"Buddha 仏 画数4 1037 Details Story Dictionary 仏 Buddha Heisig's Person . . . elbow. Koohii #1 Mr. T says, ""I ain´t afraid o´ no foo! I´ll give anyone an elbow to the face, I don´t care if it´s Buddha himself!"". Koohii #2 Buddha is a person who always seems to have his elbows bent. Primitives buddha, person, elbow 仏(ふつ): French 仏像(ぶつぞう): Buddhist image (statue) 仏(ほとけ): Buddha, merciful person, Buddhist image, the dead Kunyomi: ほとけ Onyomi: ブツ、フツ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 仏 (ほとけ)"
rest Details Story Dictionary 休 rest Heisig's Person . . . tree. Be sure not to confuse with relax (Frame 202). Koohii #1 Mr T resting by a tree. Koohii #2 Chuck norris rests againsts the tree, but wait, no... the tree rests and stands against him. Primitives rest, person, tree, wood お休み(おやすみ): holiday, absence, rest, Good night 休学(きゅうがく): temporary absence from school, suspension 休戦(きゅうせん): truce, armistice 産休(さんきゅう): maternity leave 休める(やすめる): to rest, to suspend, to give relief 連休(れんきゅう): consecutive holidays 休暇(きゅうか): holiday, day off, furlough 休業(きゅうぎょう): closed (e.g. store), business suspended, shutdown, holiday 休憩(きゅうけい): rest, break, recess, intermission 休講(きゅうこう): lecture cancelled 休息(きゅうそく): rest, relief, relaxation 休養(きゅうよう): rest, break, recreation 定休日(ていきゅうび): regular holiday 一休み(ひとやすみ): rest 昼休み(ひるやすみ): lunch break 夏休み(なつやすみ): summer vacation, summer holiday 休み(やすみ): rest, recess, respite, vacation, holiday, absence, suspension 休む(やすむ): to rest, have a break, take a day off, be finished, be absent, retire, sleep Kunyomi: やす.む、やす.まる、やす.める Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 休まる (やす.まる), 休む (やす.む), 休める (やす.める)	rest 休 画数6 1038 Details Story Dictionary 休 rest Heisig's Person . . . tree. Be sure not to confuse with relax (Frame 202). Koohii #1 Mr T resting by a tree. Koohii #2 Chuck norris rests againsts the tree, but wait, no... the tree rests and stands against him. Primitives rest, person, tree, wood お休み(おやすみ): holiday, absence, rest, Good night 休学(きゅうがく): temporary absence from school, suspension 休戦(きゅうせん): truce, armistice 産休(さんきゅう): maternity leave 休める(やすめる): to rest, to suspend, to give relief 連休(れんきゅう): consecutive holidays 休暇(きゅうか): holiday, day off, furlough 休業(きゅうぎょう): closed (e.g. store), business suspended, shutdown, holiday 休憩(きゅうけい): rest, break, recess, intermission 休講(きゅうこう): lecture cancelled 休息(きゅうそく): rest, relief, relaxation 休養(きゅうよう): rest, break, recreation 定休日(ていきゅうび): regular holiday 一休み(ひとやすみ): rest 昼休み(ひるやすみ): lunch break 夏休み(なつやすみ): summer vacation, summer holiday 休み(やすみ): rest, recess, respite, vacation, holiday, absence, suspension 休む(やすむ): to rest, have a break, take a day off, be finished, be absent, retire, sleep Kunyomi: やす.む、やす.まる、やす.める Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 休まる (やす.まる), 休む (やす.む), 休める (やす.める)
"provisional Details Story Dictionary 仮 provisional Heisig's Person . . . anti-. Koohii #1 Mr. T was offered a job in the Iraq Provisional Authority, but he turned it down, because he´s anti-war. ""I pity da fool thinks this sand pit worth invadin´ when our schools be in such sad shape!"". Koohii #2 Mr. T is anti anything provisional. ""I pity da foo´ who´s so indecisive that he can´t make nothin´ permanent"". Primitives sham, provisional, person, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch 仮(か): tentative, provisional 仮令(たとえ): example, even if, if, though, although 送り仮名(おくりがな): kana written after a kanji to complete the full (usually kun) reading of the word 仮定(かてい): assumption, supposition, hypothesis 仮名(かな): kana, alias, pseudonym, pen name 仮名遣い(かなづかい): kana orthography, syllabary spelling 振り仮名(ふりがな): hiragana over kanji, pronunciation key 片仮名(かたかな): katakana 平仮名(ひらがな): hiragana, 47 syllables, the cursive syllabary Kunyomi: かり、かり- Onyomi: カ、ケ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 仮面 (かめん), 仮定 (かてい), 仮装 (かそう), 仮 (かり)"	"provisional 仮 画数6 1039 Details Story Dictionary 仮 provisional Heisig's Person . . . anti-. Koohii #1 Mr. T was offered a job in the Iraq Provisional Authority, but he turned it down, because he´s anti-war. ""I pity da fool thinks this sand pit worth invadin´ when our schools be in such sad shape!"". Koohii #2 Mr. T is anti anything provisional. ""I pity da foo´ who´s so indecisive that he can´t make nothin´ permanent"". Primitives sham, provisional, person, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch 仮(か): tentative, provisional 仮令(たとえ): example, even if, if, though, although 送り仮名(おくりがな): kana written after a kanji to complete the full (usually kun) reading of the word 仮定(かてい): assumption, supposition, hypothesis 仮名(かな): kana, alias, pseudonym, pen name 仮名遣い(かなづかい): kana orthography, syllabary spelling 振り仮名(ふりがな): hiragana over kanji, pronunciation key 片仮名(かたかな): katakana 平仮名(ひらがな): hiragana, 47 syllables, the cursive syllabary Kunyomi: かり、かり- Onyomi: カ、ケ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 仮面 (かめん), 仮定 (かてい), 仮装 (かそう), 仮 (かり)"
performing artist Details Story Dictionary 伎 performing artist Heisig's Person . . . branch. Koohii #1 Mr T is dancing and singing and all that, but he´s doing it on a branch. All that talent and can still still keep his balance? That´s a real performing artist. Koohii #2 (note: this is the ´ki´ from kabuki).//The performing artist is a person doing Kabuki theater and dancing around with a branch in his hand. Primitives performing artist, person, branch, ten, needle, crotch Kunyomi: わざ、わざおぎ Onyomi: ギ、キ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	performing artist 伎 画数6 1040 Details Story Dictionary 伎 performing artist Heisig's Person . . . branch. Koohii #1 Mr T is dancing and singing and all that, but he´s doing it on a branch. All that talent and can still still keep his balance? That´s a real performing artist. Koohii #2 (note: this is the ´ki´ from kabuki).//The performing artist is a person doing Kabuki theater and dancing around with a branch in his hand. Primitives performing artist, person, branch, ten, needle, crotch Kunyomi: わざ、わざおぎ Onyomi: ギ、キ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
chief Details Story Dictionary 伯 chief Heisig's Person . . . white dove. Koohii #1 If Mr T was white I am sure he would have been commander in chief of the USA, he just the sort of clown Americans love to vote for. (NB: I tried with the indian chief motif but kept adding feathers by mistake). Koohii #2 Mr T was originally supposed to be the chief of the A-Team, but then the producers realized that America didn´t want to see a Black guy as the chief of a prime-time TV show. So here, we see Mr T doing a bunch of cocaine, and then spreading it all over his face to look white, and trying out for the part of Hannibal. The directors were so impressed that they let him stunt double for Hannibal in a few episodes. OR, Mr T chiefin´ on some crack cocaine. You make the call. Primitives chief, person, white, dove 伯父さん(おじさん): middle-aged gentleman, uncle 伯母さん(おばさん): aunt Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハク Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	chief 伯 画数7 1041 Details Story Dictionary 伯 chief Heisig's Person . . . white dove. Koohii #1 If Mr T was white I am sure he would have been commander in chief of the USA, he just the sort of clown Americans love to vote for. (NB: I tried with the indian chief motif but kept adding feathers by mistake). Koohii #2 Mr T was originally supposed to be the chief of the A-Team, but then the producers realized that America didn´t want to see a Black guy as the chief of a prime-time TV show. So here, we see Mr T doing a bunch of cocaine, and then spreading it all over his face to look white, and trying out for the part of Hannibal. The directors were so impressed that they let him stunt double for Hannibal in a few episodes. OR, Mr T chiefin´ on some crack cocaine. You make the call. Primitives chief, person, white, dove 伯父さん(おじさん): middle-aged gentleman, uncle 伯母さん(おばさん): aunt Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハク Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"vulgar Details Story Dictionary 俗 vulgar Heisig's Person . . . valley. The key word should be taken in its older sense of ""popular"" or ""commonplace."" Koohii #1 Mr. T says, ""Don´t be like them valley girls, always speaking vulgar language and acting all vulgar! They ain´t nothing but foos!"". Koohii #2 Mr T meets the vulgar (common) people of the valley and participates in the vulgar customs (folkways). Looking at the vulgar (common) people, Mr T says - “I pity you foo!”. Primitives vulgar, person, valley, eight, umbrella, mouth 風俗(ふうぞく): manners, customs, sex service, sex industry 民俗(みんぞく): people, race, nation, racial customs, folk customs Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゾク Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"vulgar 俗 画数9 1042 Details Story Dictionary 俗 vulgar Heisig's Person . . . valley. The key word should be taken in its older sense of ""popular"" or ""commonplace."" Koohii #1 Mr. T says, ""Don´t be like them valley girls, always speaking vulgar language and acting all vulgar! They ain´t nothing but foos!"". Koohii #2 Mr T meets the vulgar (common) people of the valley and participates in the vulgar customs (folkways). Looking at the vulgar (common) people, Mr T says - “I pity you foo!”. Primitives vulgar, person, valley, eight, umbrella, mouth 風俗(ふうぞく): manners, customs, sex service, sex industry 民俗(みんぞく): people, race, nation, racial customs, folk customs Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゾク Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"faith Details Story Dictionary 信 faith Heisig's Person . . . words. Koohii #1 Mr. T has faith in the Word of God. (Image: Mr. T kneeling and prayering in front of a bible. ""Pity me, fool.""). Koohii #2 Faith is believing that a person will be true to his word. Primitives faith, person, say, words, keitai, mouth 確信(かくしん): conviction, confidence 自信(じしん): self-confidence 信者(しんじゃ): believer, adherent, devotee, Christian 信任(しんにん): trust, confidence, credence 信用(しんよう): confidence, dependence, credit, faith, reliance, belief, credence 信仰(しんこう): (religious) faith, belief, creed 信号(しんごう): traffic lights, signal, semaphore 信じる(しんじる): believe, believe in, place trust in, confide in, have faith in 信ずる(しんずる): believe, believe in, place trust in, confide in, have faith in 信頼(しんらい): reliance, trust, confidence 通信(つうしん): correspondence, communication, news, signal 迷信(めいしん): superstition Kunyomi: Onyomi: シン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"faith 信 画数9 1043 Details Story Dictionary 信 faith Heisig's Person . . . words. Koohii #1 Mr. T has faith in the Word of God. (Image: Mr. T kneeling and prayering in front of a bible. ""Pity me, fool.""). Koohii #2 Faith is believing that a person will be true to his word. Primitives faith, person, say, words, keitai, mouth 確信(かくしん): conviction, confidence 自信(じしん): self-confidence 信者(しんじゃ): believer, adherent, devotee, Christian 信任(しんにん): trust, confidence, credence 信用(しんよう): confidence, dependence, credit, faith, reliance, belief, credence 信仰(しんこう): (religious) faith, belief, creed 信号(しんごう): traffic lights, signal, semaphore 信じる(しんじる): believe, believe in, place trust in, confide in, have faith in 信ずる(しんずる): believe, believe in, place trust in, confide in, have faith in 信頼(しんらい): reliance, trust, confidence 通信(つうしん): correspondence, communication, news, signal 迷信(めいしん): superstition Kunyomi: Onyomi: シン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
"excellent Details Story Dictionary 佳 excellent Heisig's Person . . . ivy. To distinguish from excel (Frame 980), eminent (Frame 52), esteem (Frame 196), and exquisite (Frame 130), give the key word its own unique connotation. Koohii #1 Mr T wants to go to an excellent school, so he enrolls in Harvard, an ivy-league school. Koohii #2 Bill and Ted are walking through medieval Europe when they see a humongous square jewel. ""Excellent!"" they both yell. But only after grabbing it do they realize it is chained to the neck of Mr. T, who grimaces angrily at them. ""Bogus!"" they cry, and totally run away. Primitives excellent, person, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, soil2, dirt2, ground2 佳句(かく): beautiful passage of literature Kunyomi: Onyomi: カ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"excellent 佳 画数8 1044 Details Story Dictionary 佳 excellent Heisig's Person . . . ivy. To distinguish from excel (Frame 980), eminent (Frame 52), esteem (Frame 196), and exquisite (Frame 130), give the key word its own unique connotation. Koohii #1 Mr T wants to go to an excellent school, so he enrolls in Harvard, an ivy-league school. Koohii #2 Bill and Ted are walking through medieval Europe when they see a humongous square jewel. ""Excellent!"" they both yell. But only after grabbing it do they realize it is chained to the neck of Mr. T, who grimaces angrily at them. ""Bogus!"" they cry, and totally run away. Primitives excellent, person, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, soil2, dirt2, ground2 佳句(かく): beautiful passage of literature Kunyomi: Onyomi: カ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
reliant Details Story Dictionary 依 reliant Heisig's Person . . . garment. Koohii #1 Mr T is reliant (depends on) on his garment (the gold chains). Koohii #2 Mr. T. is so self-reliant he even makes his own garments. Primitives reliant, person, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment 依(い): depending on 依然(いぜん): still, as yet 依存(いそん): dependence, dependent, reliance 依って(よって): therefore, consequently, accordingly, because of 依頼(いらい): request, commission, dispatch, dependence, trust Kunyomi: よ.る Onyomi: イ、エ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 依頼 (いらい), 依拠 (いきょ), 依然 (いぜん)	reliant 依 画数8 1045 Details Story Dictionary 依 reliant Heisig's Person . . . garment. Koohii #1 Mr T is reliant (depends on) on his garment (the gold chains). Koohii #2 Mr. T. is so self-reliant he even makes his own garments. Primitives reliant, person, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment 依(い): depending on 依然(いぜん): still, as yet 依存(いそん): dependence, dependent, reliance 依って(よって): therefore, consequently, accordingly, because of 依頼(いらい): request, commission, dispatch, dependence, trust Kunyomi: よ.る Onyomi: イ、エ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 依頼 (いらい), 依拠 (いきょ), 依然 (いぜん)
example Details Story Dictionary 例 example Heisig's Person . . . file. Koohii #1 Mr T shows the example to the kids, and stays in the file (at supermarket, ...). “I pity da foo who does not follow my example !”. Koohii #2 When Mr. T. wants to make an example out of a group of people, he lines them up all single file and knocks them all out with one punch! Primitives example, person, file, bones, one, ceiling, evening, sword, sabre, saber 慣例(かんれい): custom, precedent, of convention 前例(ぜんれい): precedent 例え(たとえ): example, even if, if, though, although 例(ためし): instance, example, case, precedent, experience, custom, usage, parallel, illustration 比例(ひれい): proportion 実例(じつれい): example, illustration 例える(たとえる): compare, use a simile 例(れい): instance, example, case, precedent, experience, custom, usage, parallel, illustration 例外(れいがい): exception 例えば(たとえば): for example Kunyomi: たと.える Onyomi: レイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 例える (たと.える)	example 例 画数8 1046 Details Story Dictionary 例 example Heisig's Person . . . file. Koohii #1 Mr T shows the example to the kids, and stays in the file (at supermarket, ...). “I pity da foo who does not follow my example !”. Koohii #2 When Mr. T. wants to make an example out of a group of people, he lines them up all single file and knocks them all out with one punch! Primitives example, person, file, bones, one, ceiling, evening, sword, sabre, saber 慣例(かんれい): custom, precedent, of convention 前例(ぜんれい): precedent 例え(たとえ): example, even if, if, though, although 例(ためし): instance, example, case, precedent, experience, custom, usage, parallel, illustration 比例(ひれい): proportion 実例(じつれい): example, illustration 例える(たとえる): compare, use a simile 例(れい): instance, example, case, precedent, experience, custom, usage, parallel, illustration 例外(れいがい): exception 例えば(たとえば): for example Kunyomi: たと.える Onyomi: レイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 例える (たと.える)
"individual Details Story Dictionary 個 individual My Story [Person + Harden (Mouth + Old) {固} ] I know a *person* who works out everyday until each individual muscle has *hardened*. Koohii #1 This keyword gave me trouble, I could write the kanji from memory but could not remember the keyword the other way around. In such case the dictionary definition can be helpful : ""Middle English, single, indivisible"". Here we have Mr. T. who is so hardened (all the body workout he´s had) that he became in-dividual, that is, in-divisible. ""I pity da foo who can be divided into smaller units."". Koohii #2 Mr. T insists that people be individual. He appears on television, saying, ""Being an individual is hard! But you gotta do it! Harden yourself, and be individual!"". Primitives individual, person, harden, pent in, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 個(か): article counter 個々(ここ): individual, one by one 個性(こせい): individuality, personality, idiosyncrasy 個別(こべつ): particular case 個所(かしょ): passage, place, point, part 個人(こじん): individual, personal, private 個体(こたい): an individual Kunyomi: Onyomi: コ、カ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"individual 個 画数10 1047 Details Story Dictionary 個 individual My Story [Person + Harden (Mouth + Old) {固} ] I know a *person* who works out everyday until each individual muscle has *hardened*. Koohii #1 This keyword gave me trouble, I could write the kanji from memory but could not remember the keyword the other way around. In such case the dictionary definition can be helpful : ""Middle English, single, indivisible"". Here we have Mr. T. who is so hardened (all the body workout he´s had) that he became in-dividual, that is, in-divisible. ""I pity da foo who can be divided into smaller units."". Koohii #2 Mr. T insists that people be individual. He appears on television, saying, ""Being an individual is hard! But you gotta do it! Harden yourself, and be individual!"". Primitives individual, person, harden, pent in, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 個(か): article counter 個々(ここ): individual, one by one 個性(こせい): individuality, personality, idiosyncrasy 個別(こべつ): particular case 個所(かしょ): passage, place, point, part 個人(こじん): individual, personal, private 個体(こたい): an individual Kunyomi: Onyomi: コ、カ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
"healthy Details Story Dictionary 健 healthy Heisig's Person . . . build. Koohii #1 Mr. T in a public service announcement yells, ""I´m healthy because every day I build a food pyramid, foo!"". Koohii #2 Mr.T, sir, how do you stay so healthy? I asked. ""Simple, foo,"" he answered, ""you gotta build the body up by bodybuilding!"". Primitives healthy, person, build, brush, stretch 健在(けんざい): in good health, well 健全(けんぜん): health, soundness, wholesome 健やか(すこやか): vigorous, healthy, sound 健康(けんこう): health, sound, wholesome 保健(ほけん): health preservation, hygiene, sanitation Kunyomi: すこ.やか Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 健やか (すこ.やか)"	"healthy 健 画数11 1048 Details Story Dictionary 健 healthy Heisig's Person . . . build. Koohii #1 Mr. T in a public service announcement yells, ""I´m healthy because every day I build a food pyramid, foo!"". Koohii #2 Mr.T, sir, how do you stay so healthy? I asked. ""Simple, foo,"" he answered, ""you gotta build the body up by bodybuilding!"". Primitives healthy, person, build, brush, stretch 健在(けんざい): in good health, well 健全(けんぜん): health, soundness, wholesome 健やか(すこやか): vigorous, healthy, sound 健康(けんこう): health, sound, wholesome 保健(ほけん): health preservation, hygiene, sanitation Kunyomi: すこ.やか Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 健やか (すこ.やか)"
side Details Story Dictionary 側 side My Story [Person + rule {則}] *People* keep two things by their side - *money* and a *realistic sword*. On the psychedelic side, some *person* is fighting a *shellfish* with a *ri*alistic sword Koohii #1 Mr. T rulezzz! I am on his side! Koohii #2 Chuck Norris´s rules are easy to live by, just be on his side. Primitives side, person, rule, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, sword, sabre, saber 縁側(えんがわ): veranda, porch, balcony, open corridor 側(かわ): side, row, surroundings, part, (watch) case 側(がわ): side, row, surroundings, part, (watch) case 側面(そくめん): side, flank, sidelight, lateral 側(そば): near, close, beside, vicinity, proximity, besides, while 両側(りょうがわ): both sides Kunyomi: かわ、がわ、そば Onyomi: ソク Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 側 (かわ)	side 側 画数11 1049 Details Story Dictionary 側 side My Story [Person + rule {則}] *People* keep two things by their side - *money* and a *realistic sword*. On the psychedelic side, some *person* is fighting a *shellfish* with a *ri*alistic sword Koohii #1 Mr. T rulezzz! I am on his side! Koohii #2 Chuck Norris´s rules are easy to live by, just be on his side. Primitives side, person, rule, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, sword, sabre, saber 縁側(えんがわ): veranda, porch, balcony, open corridor 側(かわ): side, row, surroundings, part, (watch) case 側(がわ): side, row, surroundings, part, (watch) case 側面(そくめん): side, flank, sidelight, lateral 側(そば): near, close, beside, vicinity, proximity, besides, while 両側(りょうがわ): both sides Kunyomi: かわ、がわ、そば Onyomi: ソク Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 側 (かわ)
"waiter Details Story Dictionary 侍 waiter Heisig's Person . . . Buddhist temple. The key word is deceptively modern, but the kanji is actually another way of writing ""samurai."" Be careful not to confuse with attend (Frame 1033). Koohii #1 Mr. T infiltrates the secret samurai Buddhist temple as a waiter with a tray of green tea. (Careful: attend (#960)). Koohii #2 Remember the kanji for wait, 待. Well, now we have a waiter, and he´s dropped a dish. See: 侍! 待 crash 侍. Primitives waiter, person, Buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue 侍(さむらい): Samurai, warrior Kunyomi: さむらい、はべ.る Onyomi: ジ、シ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 侍 (さむらい)"	"waiter 侍 画数8 1050 Details Story Dictionary 侍 waiter Heisig's Person . . . Buddhist temple. The key word is deceptively modern, but the kanji is actually another way of writing ""samurai."" Be careful not to confuse with attend (Frame 1033). Koohii #1 Mr. T infiltrates the secret samurai Buddhist temple as a waiter with a tray of green tea. (Careful: attend (#960)). Koohii #2 Remember the kanji for wait, 待. Well, now we have a waiter, and he´s dropped a dish. See: 侍! 待 crash 侍. Primitives waiter, person, Buddhist temple, soil, dirt, ground, glue 侍(さむらい): Samurai, warrior Kunyomi: さむらい、はべ.る Onyomi: ジ、シ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 侍 (さむらい)"
"halt Details Story Dictionary 停 halt Heisig's Person . . . pavilion. Koohii #1 Halt fool - Mr T acting as a bouncer at the pavillion. Koohii #2 Mister T makes a halt at the African pavilion at the World´s Fair. He eats all the snacks on offer, and chats up the ladies - ""“I pity da foo who does not halt by your pavilion, it´s the best !"". Primitives halt, person, pavilion, tall, top hat, mouth, crown, street, nail, spike 調停(ちょうてい): arbitration, conciliation, mediation 停滞(ていたい): stagnation, tie-up, congestion, retention, accumulation, falling into arrears 停止(ていし): suspension, interruption, stoppage, ban, standstill, deadlock, stalemate, abeyance 停車(ていしゃ): stopping (e.g. train) 停電(ていでん): failure of electricity 停留所(ていりゅうじょ): bus or tram stop Kunyomi: と.める、と.まる Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"halt 停 画数11 1051 Details Story Dictionary 停 halt Heisig's Person . . . pavilion. Koohii #1 Halt fool - Mr T acting as a bouncer at the pavillion. Koohii #2 Mister T makes a halt at the African pavilion at the World´s Fair. He eats all the snacks on offer, and chats up the ladies - ""“I pity da foo who does not halt by your pavilion, it´s the best !"". Primitives halt, person, pavilion, tall, top hat, mouth, crown, street, nail, spike 調停(ちょうてい): arbitration, conciliation, mediation 停滞(ていたい): stagnation, tie-up, congestion, retention, accumulation, falling into arrears 停止(ていし): suspension, interruption, stoppage, ban, standstill, deadlock, stalemate, abeyance 停車(ていしゃ): stopping (e.g. train) 停電(ていでん): failure of electricity 停留所(ていりゅうじょ): bus or tram stop Kunyomi: と.める、と.まる Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
"price Details Story Dictionary 値 price My Story A person 亻will never tell you the real price *straightaway* 直. You need to haggle a bit. 価値、かち, value (ka-ching $$$): あの家はあまり価値がないです, ""That house is not worth very much."" 値段、ねだん, price (+ grade): このTシャツの値段はいくらですか, ""How much is the price of this T-shirt?"" に値する、にあたいする, to be worth, deserve: 将軍は勇者に「君は勲章に値する」と言った, ""The general said to the brave man, 'You deserve a medal.'"" Koohii #1 Mr. T (person) tells the used car salesman to tell him the real price straight away, and when he doesn´t he throws him through the windshield. Koohii #2 Mr. T is shopping for new chains. He knows what he wants and money isn´t an issue. ""Cut the jibba-jabba, tell me the price, straightaway!"". Primitives price, person, straightaway, ten, needle, eye, fishhook 値(あたい): value, price, cost, worth, merit 値する(あたいする): to be worth, to deserve, to merit 値打ち(ねうち): value, worth, price, dignity 値段(ねだん): price, cost 値引き(ねびき): price reduction, discount 価値(かち): value, worth, merit 値(ね): value, price, cost, worth, merit, (computer programming) variable Kunyomi: ね、あたい Onyomi: チ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 値 (あたい), 値 (ね)"	"price 値 画数10 1052 Details Story Dictionary 値 price My Story A person 亻will never tell you the real price *straightaway* 直. You need to haggle a bit. 価値、かち, value (ka-ching $$$): あの家はあまり価値がないです, ""That house is not worth very much."" 値段、ねだん, price (+ grade): このTシャツの値段はいくらですか, ""How much is the price of this T-shirt?"" に値する、にあたいする, to be worth, deserve: 将軍は勇者に「君は勲章に値する」と言った, ""The general said to the brave man, 'You deserve a medal.'"" Koohii #1 Mr. T (person) tells the used car salesman to tell him the real price straight away, and when he doesn´t he throws him through the windshield. Koohii #2 Mr. T is shopping for new chains. He knows what he wants and money isn´t an issue. ""Cut the jibba-jabba, tell me the price, straightaway!"". Primitives price, person, straightaway, ten, needle, eye, fishhook 値(あたい): value, price, cost, worth, merit 値する(あたいする): to be worth, to deserve, to merit 値打ち(ねうち): value, worth, price, dignity 値段(ねだん): price, cost 値引き(ねびき): price reduction, discount 価値(かち): value, worth, merit 値(ね): value, price, cost, worth, merit, (computer programming) variable Kunyomi: ね、あたい Onyomi: チ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 値 (あたい), 値 (ね)"
emulate Details Story Dictionary 倣 emulate Heisig's Person . . . set free. Koohii #1 Mr T downloads an emulator so that he can play his favorite game, Pokemon. He plays for a different reason, though - he hates to see them poor little foos in the ball so he spends his entire time setting them free. Koohii #2 The black slave who was set free (#496) decides to emulate Mr. T, his role model. He uses his compass to head to Cali to start anew. Primitives emulate, person, set free, compass, direction, taskmaster 倣(ほう): imitate, follow, emulate 模倣(もほう): imitation, copying 倣う(ならう): imitate, follow, emulate Kunyomi: なら.う Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 倣う (なら.う)	emulate 倣 画数10 1053 Details Story Dictionary 倣 emulate Heisig's Person . . . set free. Koohii #1 Mr T downloads an emulator so that he can play his favorite game, Pokemon. He plays for a different reason, though - he hates to see them poor little foos in the ball so he spends his entire time setting them free. Koohii #2 The black slave who was set free (#496) decides to emulate Mr. T, his role model. He uses his compass to head to Cali to start anew. Primitives emulate, person, set free, compass, direction, taskmaster 倣(ほう): imitate, follow, emulate 模倣(もほう): imitation, copying 倣う(ならう): imitate, follow, emulate Kunyomi: なら.う Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 倣う (なら.う)
arrogance Details Story Dictionary 傲 arrogance Heisig's Person . . . soil . . . compass . . . taskmaster. You may, of course, take the character for emulate from the previous frame as the basis for this kanji, adding to it only the element for soil. Koohii #1 He showed his arrogance as he poured dirt on those who tried to emulate him. Koohii #2 Your arrogance has soiled your attempt to emulate such an honorable effort. Kunyomi: あなど.る、 おご.る Onyomi: ゴウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	arrogance 傲 画数13 1054 Details Story Dictionary 傲 arrogance Heisig's Person . . . soil . . . compass . . . taskmaster. You may, of course, take the character for emulate from the previous frame as the basis for this kanji, adding to it only the element for soil. Koohii #1 He showed his arrogance as he poured dirt on those who tried to emulate him. Koohii #2 Your arrogance has soiled your attempt to emulate such an honorable effort. Kunyomi: あなど.る、 おご.る Onyomi: ゴウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
overthrow Details Story Dictionary 倒 overthrow Heisig's Person . . . arrival. Koohii #1 The A-Team are planning to overthrow the government. However, they can´t do a damn thing until Mr T arrives. Koohii #2 In Return of the Jedi, after a climactic light sabre battle, Luke and Vader overthrow the emporer (literally throwing him over the balcony). Primitives overthrow, person, arrival, climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground, sword, sabre, saber 倒産(とうさん): (corporate) bankruptcy, insolvency 倒す(たおす): throw down, beat, bring down, blow down, fell, knock down, trip up, defeat, ruin, overthrow, kill, leave unpaid, cheat 面倒(めんどう): trouble, difficulty, care, attention 面倒臭い(めんどうくさい): bother to do, tiresome 倒れる(たおれる): fall down Kunyomi: たお.れる、-だお.れ、たお.す Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 倒す (たお.す), 倒れる (たお.れる)	overthrow 倒 画数10 1055 Details Story Dictionary 倒 overthrow Heisig's Person . . . arrival. Koohii #1 The A-Team are planning to overthrow the government. However, they can´t do a damn thing until Mr T arrives. Koohii #2 In Return of the Jedi, after a climactic light sabre battle, Luke and Vader overthrow the emporer (literally throwing him over the balcony). Primitives overthrow, person, arrival, climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground, sword, sabre, saber 倒産(とうさん): (corporate) bankruptcy, insolvency 倒す(たおす): throw down, beat, bring down, blow down, fell, knock down, trip up, defeat, ruin, overthrow, kill, leave unpaid, cheat 面倒(めんどう): trouble, difficulty, care, attention 面倒臭い(めんどうくさい): bother to do, tiresome 倒れる(たおれる): fall down Kunyomi: たお.れる、-だお.れ、たお.す Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 倒す (たお.す), 倒れる (たお.れる)
"spy Details Story Dictionary 偵 spy Heisig's Person . . . upright. Koohii #1 Mr. T is a terrible spy. He walks around upright. ""Why should I hide?! I´ve got nothing to be ashamed of!"". Koohii #2 NOTE: The second primitive is upright, not eminent. There is an error in the book. Primitives spy, person, upright, magic wand, augury, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"spy 偵 画数11 1056 Details Story Dictionary 偵 spy Heisig's Person . . . upright. Koohii #1 Mr. T is a terrible spy. He walks around upright. ""Why should I hide?! I´ve got nothing to be ashamed of!"". Koohii #2 NOTE: The second primitive is upright, not eminent. There is an error in the book. Primitives spy, person, upright, magic wand, augury, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"Buddhist priest Details Story Dictionary 僧 Buddhist priest Heisig's Person . . . increase. Koohii #1 While a waiter at the Buddhist temple (see FRAME 976), Mr T increases in wisdom and becomes a Buddhist priest. Koohii #2 Mr. T and the artist formerly known as Prince, who by the way is a buddhist, want to form a new heavy metal band. Instead of ""Judas Priest"" they will be called ""Buddhist Priest"". Primitives buddhist priest, person, increase, formerly, horns, rice field, brains, sun, day 僧(そう): monk, priest Kunyomi: Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"Buddhist priest 僧 画数13 1057 Details Story Dictionary 僧 Buddhist priest Heisig's Person . . . increase. Koohii #1 While a waiter at the Buddhist temple (see FRAME 976), Mr T increases in wisdom and becomes a Buddhist priest. Koohii #2 Mr. T and the artist formerly known as Prince, who by the way is a buddhist, want to form a new heavy metal band. Instead of ""Judas Priest"" they will be called ""Buddhist Priest"". Primitives buddhist priest, person, increase, formerly, horns, rice field, brains, sun, day 僧(そう): monk, priest Kunyomi: Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"hundred million Details Story Dictionary 億 hundred million Heisig's Person . . . idea. Koohii #1 Mr. T has an clear idea of what he would do if he ever got hundred million dollar. (I guess it would be a enormous gold chain !). Koohii #2 Mr. T´s bright idea is to get a hundred million kids to vow not to use drugs. ""C´mon, foo! Sign the paper!"". Primitives hundred million, person, idea, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, heart 億(おく): a hundred million Kunyomi: Onyomi: オク Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"hundred million 億 画数15 1058 Details Story Dictionary 億 hundred million Heisig's Person . . . idea. Koohii #1 Mr. T has an clear idea of what he would do if he ever got hundred million dollar. (I guess it would be a enormous gold chain !). Koohii #2 Mr. T´s bright idea is to get a hundred million kids to vow not to use drugs. ""C´mon, foo! Sign the paper!"". Primitives hundred million, person, idea, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, heart 億(おく): a hundred million Kunyomi: Onyomi: オク Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
ceremony Details Story Dictionary 儀 ceremony Heisig's Person . . . righteousness. Koohii #1 Mr. T is the master of ceremonies because he is a righteous dude. Koohii #2 Mr. T was briefly a rapper, that is an M.C., that is a master of CEREMONIES (the origin of the phrase). But he sang only RIGHTEOUS songs, no cursing or anything like that. (all true: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_rBidCkJxo ). Primitives ceremony, person, righteousness, sheep, ego, hand, fiesta 御辞儀(おじぎ): bow 儀式(ぎしき): ceremony, rite, ritual, service 行儀(ぎょうぎ): manners 礼儀(れいぎ): manners, courtesy, etiquette Kunyomi: Onyomi: ギ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	ceremony 儀 画数15 1059 Details Story Dictionary 儀 ceremony Heisig's Person . . . righteousness. Koohii #1 Mr. T is the master of ceremonies because he is a righteous dude. Koohii #2 Mr. T was briefly a rapper, that is an M.C., that is a master of CEREMONIES (the origin of the phrase). But he sang only RIGHTEOUS songs, no cursing or anything like that. (all true: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_rBidCkJxo ). Primitives ceremony, person, righteousness, sheep, ego, hand, fiesta 御辞儀(おじぎ): bow 儀式(ぎしき): ceremony, rite, ritual, service 行儀(ぎょうぎ): manners 礼儀(れいぎ): manners, courtesy, etiquette Kunyomi: Onyomi: ギ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"reparation Details Story Dictionary 償 reparation Heisig's Person . . . prize. Koohii #1 Mr. T says, ""This ain´t no prize, foo! This is reparations for slavery!"". Koohii #2 NOTE: do not confuse with compensation (#476)賠. However, 賠 is always used in conjunction 賠償... But 償 is used in various other compounds. Mr. T sold all his jewelry to give as reparations to slave families. The governent tried to honor his charity by giving him a prize, but it was a shitty outhouse filled with clams. Primitives reparation, person, prize, outhouse, small, little, crown, mouth, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 賠償(ばいしょう): reparations, indemnity, compensation 弁償(べんしょう): next word, compensation, reparation, indemnity, reimbursement 補償(ほしょう): compensation, reparation Kunyomi: つぐな.う Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 償う (つぐな.う)"	"reparation 償 画数17 1060 Details Story Dictionary 償 reparation Heisig's Person . . . prize. Koohii #1 Mr. T says, ""This ain´t no prize, foo! This is reparations for slavery!"". Koohii #2 NOTE: do not confuse with compensation (#476)賠. However, 賠 is always used in conjunction 賠償... But 償 is used in various other compounds. Mr. T sold all his jewelry to give as reparations to slave families. The governent tried to honor his charity by giving him a prize, but it was a shitty outhouse filled with clams. Primitives reparation, person, prize, outhouse, small, little, crown, mouth, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 賠償(ばいしょう): reparations, indemnity, compensation 弁償(べんしょう): next word, compensation, reparation, indemnity, reimbursement 補償(ほしょう): compensation, reparation Kunyomi: つぐな.う Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 償う (つぐな.う)"
"hermit Details Story Dictionary 仙 hermit Heisig's Person . . . mountain. Koohii #1 A HERMIT is a PERSON who lives in the MOUNTAINS. Koohii #2 After living as an hermit (recluse) for a while in the mountains, Mister T becomes an immortal mountain fairy (""fairy"" is another meaning of this kanji). Primitives hermit, person, mountain 仙(せん): hermit, wizard Kunyomi: Onyomi: セン、セント Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"hermit 仙 画数5 1061 Details Story Dictionary 仙 hermit Heisig's Person . . . mountain. Koohii #1 A HERMIT is a PERSON who lives in the MOUNTAINS. Koohii #2 After living as an hermit (recluse) for a while in the mountains, Mister T becomes an immortal mountain fairy (""fairy"" is another meaning of this kanji). Primitives hermit, person, mountain 仙(せん): hermit, wizard Kunyomi: Onyomi: セン、セント Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"sponsor Details Story Dictionary 催 sponsor Heisig's Hermit . . . turkey. Note what has happened to the mountain in the element for hermit. In order to make room for the turkey, it was raised and condensed. Koohii #1 And now a word from our sponsor. We see Mr. T, doing a sort of George Foreman thing, grilling Mountain Turkeys. ""I pity da foo who don´t have a Mr. T grill!"". Koohii #2 Mister T sponsors a meeting in the mountains (he´s an hermit), talking over a megaphone “I pity da foo who does not come to my event !”. The old turkey comes, and Mister T catches it and cooks it for dinner, muahaha. Primitives sponsor, person, mountain, turkey 開催(かいさい): holding a meeting, open an exhibition 主催(しゅさい): organization, sponsorship 催す(もよおす): to hold (a meeting), to give (a dinner), to feel, to show signs of, to develop symptoms of, to feel (sick) 催促(さいそく): request, demand, claim, urge (action), press for 催し(もよおし): event, festivities, function, social gathering, auspices, opening, holding (a meeting) Kunyomi: もよう.す、もよお.す Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 催す (もよお.す)"	"sponsor 催 画数13 1062 Details Story Dictionary 催 sponsor Heisig's Hermit . . . turkey. Note what has happened to the mountain in the element for hermit. In order to make room for the turkey, it was raised and condensed. Koohii #1 And now a word from our sponsor. We see Mr. T, doing a sort of George Foreman thing, grilling Mountain Turkeys. ""I pity da foo who don´t have a Mr. T grill!"". Koohii #2 Mister T sponsors a meeting in the mountains (he´s an hermit), talking over a megaphone “I pity da foo who does not come to my event !”. The old turkey comes, and Mister T catches it and cooks it for dinner, muahaha. Primitives sponsor, person, mountain, turkey 開催(かいさい): holding a meeting, open an exhibition 主催(しゅさい): organization, sponsorship 催す(もよおす): to hold (a meeting), to give (a dinner), to feel, to show signs of, to develop symptoms of, to feel (sick) 催促(さいそく): request, demand, claim, urge (action), press for 催し(もよおし): event, festivities, function, social gathering, auspices, opening, holding (a meeting) Kunyomi: もよう.す、もよお.す Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 催す (もよお.す)"
humanity Details Story Dictionary 仁 humanity Heisig's To refer to the fullness of humanity that can only be achieved in dialogue with another (person . . . two), Confucius used this character. Koohii #1 The beginning of humanity required at least TWO people. Mr. T and Mrs. T! Koohii #2 Mr. T shows his humanity by giving two bucks to every homeless person he sees. Primitives humanity, person, two Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジン、ニ、ニン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 仁義 (じんぎ), 仁術 (ひとしじゅつ)	humanity 仁 画数4 1063 Details Story Dictionary 仁 humanity Heisig's To refer to the fullness of humanity that can only be achieved in dialogue with another (person . . . two), Confucius used this character. Koohii #1 The beginning of humanity required at least TWO people. Mr. T and Mrs. T! Koohii #2 Mr. T shows his humanity by giving two bucks to every homeless person he sees. Primitives humanity, person, two Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジン、ニ、ニン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 仁義 (じんぎ), 仁術 (ひとしじゅつ)
scorn Details Story Dictionary 侮 scorn Heisig's Every . . . person. Koohii #1 Mr. T has scorn for every fool. Koohii #2 People full of scorn tend to hate every person (including themselves). Primitives scorn, person, every, reclining, lying down, mother, breasts 侮辱(ぶじょく): insult, contempt, slight Kunyomi: あなど.る、あなず.る Onyomi: ブ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 侮る (あなど.る)	scorn 侮 画数8 1064 Details Story Dictionary 侮 scorn Heisig's Every . . . person. Koohii #1 Mr. T has scorn for every fool. Koohii #2 People full of scorn tend to hate every person (including themselves). Primitives scorn, person, every, reclining, lying down, mother, breasts 侮辱(ぶじょく): insult, contempt, slight Kunyomi: あなど.る、あなず.る Onyomi: ブ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 侮る (あなど.る)
use Details Story Dictionary 使 use Heisig's Person . . . officer. Koohii #1 Of course Mr. T will tell a police officer if he catches someone using drugs, foo! Koohii #2 Mr. T uses the officer as a punching bag. Primitives use, person, history, length, stick, mouth, tucked under the arm お使い(おつかい): errand 使命(しめい): mission, errand, message 使用人(しようにん): employee, servant 使い道(つかいみち): use 使用(しよう): use, employment 大使(たいし): ambassador 大使館(たいしかん): embassy 使う(つかう): use, handle, manipulate, employ, need, want, spend, consume, speak (English), practise (fencing), take (one´s lunch), circulate (bad money) Kunyomi: つか.う、つか.い、-つか.い、-づか.い Onyomi: シ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 使う (つか.う)	use 使 画数8 1065 Details Story Dictionary 使 use Heisig's Person . . . officer. Koohii #1 Of course Mr. T will tell a police officer if he catches someone using drugs, foo! Koohii #2 Mr. T uses the officer as a punching bag. Primitives use, person, history, length, stick, mouth, tucked under the arm お使い(おつかい): errand 使命(しめい): mission, errand, message 使用人(しようにん): employee, servant 使い道(つかいみち): use 使用(しよう): use, employment 大使(たいし): ambassador 大使館(たいしかん): embassy 使う(つかう): use, handle, manipulate, employ, need, want, spend, consume, speak (English), practise (fencing), take (one´s lunch), circulate (bad money) Kunyomi: つか.う、つか.い、-つか.い、-づか.い Onyomi: シ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 使う (つか.う)
convenience Details Story Dictionary 便 convenience My Story (person) stops at a CONVENIENCE store to poop as it #GROWS LATE. Koohii #1 Mr. T loves the convenience of the new konbini. Not only does it stay open even if it grows late, they have brand new toilets, and a Post Office! Koohii #2 Mr. T takes a dump on the floor of a convenience store. Well, it was growing late and he couldn´t wait. He pities the fool who will have to clean it up! Primitives convenience, person, grow late, Ameratasu, one, ceiling, sun, tucked under the arm 大便(だいべん): feces, excrement, shit 不便(ふびん): pity, compassion 便宜(べんぎ): convenience, accommodation, advantage, expedience 小便(しょうべん): (colloquial) urine 便り(たより): news, tidings, information, correspondence, letter 便(びん): mail, post, flight (e.g. airline flight), service, opportunity, chance, letter 便箋(びんせん): writing paper, stationery 船便(ふなびん): surface mail (ship) 便所(べんじょ): toilet, lavatory, rest room, latrine 郵便(ゆうびん): mail, postal service 不便(ふべん): inconvenience 便利(べんり): convenient, handy, useful 郵便局(ゆうびんきょく): post office Kunyomi: たよ.り Onyomi: ベン、ビン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 便利 (べんり), 便法 (べんぽう), 簡便 (かんべん), 便り (たよ.り)	convenience 便 画数9 1066 Details Story Dictionary 便 convenience My Story (person) stops at a CONVENIENCE store to poop as it #GROWS LATE. Koohii #1 Mr. T loves the convenience of the new konbini. Not only does it stay open even if it grows late, they have brand new toilets, and a Post Office! Koohii #2 Mr. T takes a dump on the floor of a convenience store. Well, it was growing late and he couldn´t wait. He pities the fool who will have to clean it up! Primitives convenience, person, grow late, Ameratasu, one, ceiling, sun, tucked under the arm 大便(だいべん): feces, excrement, shit 不便(ふびん): pity, compassion 便宜(べんぎ): convenience, accommodation, advantage, expedience 小便(しょうべん): (colloquial) urine 便り(たより): news, tidings, information, correspondence, letter 便(びん): mail, post, flight (e.g. airline flight), service, opportunity, chance, letter 便箋(びんせん): writing paper, stationery 船便(ふなびん): surface mail (ship) 便所(べんじょ): toilet, lavatory, rest room, latrine 郵便(ゆうびん): mail, postal service 不便(ふべん): inconvenience 便利(べんり): convenient, handy, useful 郵便局(ゆうびんきょく): post office Kunyomi: たよ.り Onyomi: ベン、ビン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 便利 (べんり), 便法 (べんぽう), 簡便 (かんべん), 便り (たよ.り)
double Details Story Dictionary 倍 double My Story A stunt double for *Mr T* had to wear a mouth *muzzle* to fool the movie audience. Koohii #1 Mr. T keeps his double muzzled ... he wants all the glory. Koohii #2 Mr T, like many holywood stars, has a butt double who is used only for scenes where T´s buttocks are exposed (he has issues with bearing his behind). The butt double has no speaking parts - he is muzzled. Of course T himself isn´t he´s rambling on about pity and foo. Primitives double, person, muzzle, vase, stand up, mouth 倍率(ばいりつ): diameter, magnification 倍(ばい): double, two times Kunyomi: Onyomi: バイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	double 倍 画数10 1067 Details Story Dictionary 倍 double My Story A stunt double for *Mr T* had to wear a mouth *muzzle* to fool the movie audience. Koohii #1 Mr. T keeps his double muzzled ... he wants all the glory. Koohii #2 Mr T, like many holywood stars, has a butt double who is used only for scenes where T´s buttocks are exposed (he has issues with bearing his behind). The butt double has no speaking parts - he is muzzled. Of course T himself isn´t he´s rambling on about pity and foo. Primitives double, person, muzzle, vase, stand up, mouth 倍率(ばいりつ): diameter, magnification 倍(ばい): double, two times Kunyomi: Onyomi: バイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
"tenderness Details Story Dictionary 優 tenderness My Story All you need is tenderness and kindness to get a person out of melancholy. Koohii #1 The A-Team is on a mission to help Hamlet. With uncharacteristic tenderness, Mr. T consoles the melancholy Hamlet. ""No, I really DO pity the poor foo. There, there little guy...take my hanky"". (Careful: benevolence (#885). Koohii #2 Someone can´t be melancholy for long if just one person treats them with a little tenderness. Primitives tenderness, person, melancholy, summer, head, page, crown, heart, walking legs 俳優(はいゆう): actor, actress, player, performer 優(やさ): gentle, affectionate 優位(ゆうい): predominance, ascendancy, superiority 優越(ゆうえつ): supremacy, predominance, being superior to 優勢(ゆうせい): superiority, superior power, predominance, preponderance 優先(ゆうせん): preference, priority 優美(ゆうび): grace, refinement, elegance 女優(じょゆう): actress 優れる(すぐれる): surpass, outstrip, excel 優秀(ゆうしゅう): superiority, excellence 優勝(ゆうしょう): overall victory, championship 優しい(やさしい): kind Kunyomi: やさ.しい、すぐ.れる、まさ.る Onyomi: ユウ、ウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 優れる (すぐ.れる), 優しい (やさ.しい)"	"tenderness 優 画数17 1068 Details Story Dictionary 優 tenderness My Story All you need is tenderness and kindness to get a person out of melancholy. Koohii #1 The A-Team is on a mission to help Hamlet. With uncharacteristic tenderness, Mr. T consoles the melancholy Hamlet. ""No, I really DO pity the poor foo. There, there little guy...take my hanky"". (Careful: benevolence (#885). Koohii #2 Someone can´t be melancholy for long if just one person treats them with a little tenderness. Primitives tenderness, person, melancholy, summer, head, page, crown, heart, walking legs 俳優(はいゆう): actor, actress, player, performer 優(やさ): gentle, affectionate 優位(ゆうい): predominance, ascendancy, superiority 優越(ゆうえつ): supremacy, predominance, being superior to 優勢(ゆうせい): superiority, superior power, predominance, preponderance 優先(ゆうせん): preference, priority 優美(ゆうび): grace, refinement, elegance 女優(じょゆう): actress 優れる(すぐれる): surpass, outstrip, excel 優秀(ゆうしゅう): superiority, excellence 優勝(ゆうしょう): overall victory, championship 優しい(やさしい): kind Kunyomi: やさ.しい、すぐ.れる、まさ.る Onyomi: ユウ、ウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 優れる (すぐ.れる), 優しい (やさ.しい)"
"fell Details Story Dictionary 伐 fell Heisig's Person . . . fiesta. Hint: recall the German legend of the English missionary, Saint Boniface, who felled the sacred oak tree dedicated to Thor at Geismar (in lower Hessia), occasioning a great fiesta for the Christians in the neighborhood to mark the defeat of their pagan competition. Be sure to fit your special person into the story if you use it. Koohii #1 At a fiesta, Mr. T tries to knock down a large pinata, but in his overly enthusiastic swings to get ""the sucka,"" he actually FELLS the tree the piñata is hanging from, crushing some party goers. “I pity da fools who got crushed by my FELLED tree!”. Koohii #2 Mr T at the fiesta fell over blind drunk. Primitives fell, person, fiesta 伐(ばつ): strike, attack, punish Kunyomi: き.る、そむ.く、う.つ Onyomi: バツ、ハツ、カ、ボチ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"fell 伐 画数6 1069 Details Story Dictionary 伐 fell Heisig's Person . . . fiesta. Hint: recall the German legend of the English missionary, Saint Boniface, who felled the sacred oak tree dedicated to Thor at Geismar (in lower Hessia), occasioning a great fiesta for the Christians in the neighborhood to mark the defeat of their pagan competition. Be sure to fit your special person into the story if you use it. Koohii #1 At a fiesta, Mr. T tries to knock down a large pinata, but in his overly enthusiastic swings to get ""the sucka,"" he actually FELLS the tree the piñata is hanging from, crushing some party goers. “I pity da fools who got crushed by my FELLED tree!”. Koohii #2 Mr T at the fiesta fell over blind drunk. Primitives fell, person, fiesta 伐(ばつ): strike, attack, punish Kunyomi: き.る、そむ.く、う.つ Onyomi: バツ、ハツ、カ、ボチ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
inn Details Story Dictionary 宿 inn My Story [Crow + standing person + hundred] The *crown* inn can hold one *person* and one *hundred* others Koohii #1 The Toyoko Inn can house 100 people or 1 Mr. T. Koohii #2 The inn is like a big house that can addomodate a hundred persons. Only this time, there´s just Mister T and he´s booked all the rooms! Primitives inn, house, person, hundred, one, ceiling, white, dove 宿命(しゅくめい): fate, destiny, predestination 民宿(みんしゅく): private home providing lodging for travelers 宿泊(しゅくはく): lodging 宿(やど): inn, lodging 下宿(げしゅく): lodge 宿題(しゅくだい): homework Kunyomi: やど、やど.る、やど.す Onyomi: シュク Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 宿 (やど), 宿す (やど.す), 宿る (やど.る)	inn 宿 画数11 1070 Details Story Dictionary 宿 inn My Story [Crow + standing person + hundred] The *crown* inn can hold one *person* and one *hundred* others Koohii #1 The Toyoko Inn can house 100 people or 1 Mr. T. Koohii #2 The inn is like a big house that can addomodate a hundred persons. Only this time, there´s just Mister T and he´s booked all the rooms! Primitives inn, house, person, hundred, one, ceiling, white, dove 宿命(しゅくめい): fate, destiny, predestination 民宿(みんしゅく): private home providing lodging for travelers 宿泊(しゅくはく): lodging 宿(やど): inn, lodging 下宿(げしゅく): lodge 宿題(しゅくだい): homework Kunyomi: やど、やど.る、やど.す Onyomi: シュク Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 宿 (やど), 宿す (やど.す), 宿る (やど.る)
wound Details Story Dictionary 傷 wound Heisig's Person . . . reclining . . . piggy bank. Koohii #1 If someone doesn't have a fat piggy bank to cover their medical costs and happen to get wounded somewhere, they'll be reclining there forever. Koohii #2 Mr. T gets wounded by reclining on his piggy bank. Primitives wound, person, reclining, lying down, piggy bank, sun, day, piglets 火傷(かしょう): burn, scald 傷付く(きずつく): to be hurt, to be wounded, to get injured 傷(しょう): wound, injury, hurt, cut, gash, bruise, scratch, scar, weak point 中傷(ちゅうしょう): slander, libel, defamation 負傷(ふしょう): injury, wound 傷(きず): wound, injury, hurt, cut, gash, bruise, scratch, scar, weak point 火傷(やけど): burn, scald Kunyomi: きず、いた.む、いた.める Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 傷む (いた.む), 傷める (いた.める), 傷 (きず)	wound 傷 画数13 1071 Details Story Dictionary 傷 wound Heisig's Person . . . reclining . . . piggy bank. Koohii #1 If someone doesn't have a fat piggy bank to cover their medical costs and happen to get wounded somewhere, they'll be reclining there forever. Koohii #2 Mr. T gets wounded by reclining on his piggy bank. Primitives wound, person, reclining, lying down, piggy bank, sun, day, piglets 火傷(かしょう): burn, scald 傷付く(きずつく): to be hurt, to be wounded, to get injured 傷(しょう): wound, injury, hurt, cut, gash, bruise, scratch, scar, weak point 中傷(ちゅうしょう): slander, libel, defamation 負傷(ふしょう): injury, wound 傷(きず): wound, injury, hurt, cut, gash, bruise, scratch, scar, weak point 火傷(やけど): burn, scald Kunyomi: きず、いた.む、いた.める Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 傷む (いた.む), 傷める (いた.める), 傷 (きず)
"protect Details Story Dictionary 保 protect Heisig's Person . . . mouth . . . tree. Koohii #1 Mr. T opens his mouth from the top of the tree saying ""I pitty da foo who don´t protect the trees!"". Koohii #2 Tip: Heisig later combines mouth and tree into 呆 dumbfounded (#2181). Story: Your person (Mr. T. or whoever) is dumbfounded when told to protect the bad guys rather than fight them. Primitives protect, person, dumbfounded, mouth, tree, wood 確保(かくほ): guarantee, ensure, maintain, insure, secure 保つ(たもつ): to keep, to preserve, to hold, to retain, to maintain, to support, to sustain, to last, to endure, to keep well (food), to wear well, to be durable 保育(ほいく): nursing, nurturing, rearing, lactation, suckling 保温(ほおん): retaining warmth, keeping heat in, heat insulation 保管(ほかん): charge, custody, safekeeping, deposit, storage 保険(ほけん): insurance, guarantee 保護(ほご): care, protection, shelter, guardianship, favor, patronage 保守(ほしゅ): conservative, maintaining 保障(ほしょう): guarantee, security, assurance, pledge, warranty 保母(ほぼ): day care worker in a kindergarten nursery school etc. 保養(ほよう): health preservation, recuperation, recreation 保健(ほけん): health preservation, hygiene, sanitation 保証(ほしょう): guarantee, security, assurance, pledge, warranty 保存(ほぞん): preservation, conservation, storage, maintenance Kunyomi: たも.つ Onyomi: ホ、ホウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 保つ (たも.つ)"	"protect 保 画数9 1072 Details Story Dictionary 保 protect Heisig's Person . . . mouth . . . tree. Koohii #1 Mr. T opens his mouth from the top of the tree saying ""I pitty da foo who don´t protect the trees!"". Koohii #2 Tip: Heisig later combines mouth and tree into 呆 dumbfounded (#2181). Story: Your person (Mr. T. or whoever) is dumbfounded when told to protect the bad guys rather than fight them. Primitives protect, person, dumbfounded, mouth, tree, wood 確保(かくほ): guarantee, ensure, maintain, insure, secure 保つ(たもつ): to keep, to preserve, to hold, to retain, to maintain, to support, to sustain, to last, to endure, to keep well (food), to wear well, to be durable 保育(ほいく): nursing, nurturing, rearing, lactation, suckling 保温(ほおん): retaining warmth, keeping heat in, heat insulation 保管(ほかん): charge, custody, safekeeping, deposit, storage 保険(ほけん): insurance, guarantee 保護(ほご): care, protection, shelter, guardianship, favor, patronage 保守(ほしゅ): conservative, maintaining 保障(ほしょう): guarantee, security, assurance, pledge, warranty 保母(ほぼ): day care worker in a kindergarten nursery school etc. 保養(ほよう): health preservation, recuperation, recreation 保健(ほけん): health preservation, hygiene, sanitation 保証(ほしょう): guarantee, security, assurance, pledge, warranty 保存(ほぞん): preservation, conservation, storage, maintenance Kunyomi: たも.つ Onyomi: ホ、ホウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 保つ (たも.つ)"
"praise Details Story Dictionary 褒 praise Heisig's Top hat and scarf . . . protect. Note that the ""tree"" in protect becomes a wooden pole here. Koohii #1 Mr. T is praised for his protecting of the trees by being given a top hat and scarf which he wears over his mohawk and chains, respectively. Koohii #2 An old lady puts a top hat and scarf on her poodle and praises him for how cute he is. The dog thinks, ""Someone protect me from this psycho!""...　RTK2:　ホウ　過褒　かほう(excessive praise). Primitives praise, top hat, protect, person, dumbfounded, mouth, tree, wood, scarf 褒美(ほうび): reward, prize 褒める(ほめる): to praise Kunyomi: ほ.める Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 褒める (ほ.める)"	"praise 褒 画数15 1073 Details Story Dictionary 褒 praise Heisig's Top hat and scarf . . . protect. Note that the ""tree"" in protect becomes a wooden pole here. Koohii #1 Mr. T is praised for his protecting of the trees by being given a top hat and scarf which he wears over his mohawk and chains, respectively. Koohii #2 An old lady puts a top hat and scarf on her poodle and praises him for how cute he is. The dog thinks, ""Someone protect me from this psycho!""...　RTK2:　ホウ　過褒　かほう(excessive praise). Primitives praise, top hat, protect, person, dumbfounded, mouth, tree, wood, scarf 褒美(ほうび): reward, prize 褒める(ほめる): to praise Kunyomi: ほ.める Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 褒める (ほ.める)"
"greatness Details Story Dictionary 傑 greatness Heisig's Person . . . sunglasses . . . tree. Koohii #1 My wise person says greatness does not come from wearing shades (sunglasses) but from planting trees to shade everyone. Koohii #2 Mr T stands in front of you, his greatness radiating out from him so brightly. You need to put on your sunglasses and hide behind a tree to even talk to the guy. ""Recognise, foo!"". Primitives greatness, person, sunglasses, dancing legs, ballerina, evening, tree, wood 傑(けつ): excellence 傑作(けっさく): masterpiece, best work, blunder Kunyomi: すぐ.れる Onyomi: ケツ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"greatness 傑 画数13 1074 Details Story Dictionary 傑 greatness Heisig's Person . . . sunglasses . . . tree. Koohii #1 My wise person says greatness does not come from wearing shades (sunglasses) but from planting trees to shade everyone. Koohii #2 Mr T stands in front of you, his greatness radiating out from him so brightly. You need to put on your sunglasses and hide behind a tree to even talk to the guy. ""Recognise, foo!"". Primitives greatness, person, sunglasses, dancing legs, ballerina, evening, tree, wood 傑(けつ): excellence 傑作(けっさく): masterpiece, best work, blunder Kunyomi: すぐ.れる Onyomi: ケツ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"adhere Details Story Dictionary 付 adhere Heisig's Person . . . glue. The few cases in which this character serves as a primitive should include some connotation of ""adhering to"" that distinguishes it from ""glued to."" Two examples follow. Koohii #1 賀 TO EVERYONE WHO MADE IT TO 千 kanji!! Remember, after this, you´ll be 読ing japanese novels, the news, and the internet like a native. 吉 to ALL of you in your amazing japanese 往. :). Koohii #2 If a PERSON ADHERES to something, they stick to it like GLUE. Primitives adhere, person, glue 受け付ける(うけつける): to be accepted, to receive (an application) 思い付き(おもいつき): plan, idea, suggestion 顔付き(かおつき): (outward) looks, features, face, countenance, expression 片付け(かたづけ): tidying up, finishing 日付(かづけ): date, dating 体付き(からだつき): body build, figure 傷付く(きずつく): to be hurt, to be wounded, to get injured くっ付く(くっつく): to adhere to, to keep close to くっ付ける(くっつける): to attach 交付(こうふ): delivering, furnishing (with copies) 仕付ける(しつける): to be used to a job, to begin to do, to baste, to tack, to plant 据え付ける(すえつける): to install, to equip, to mount 備え付ける(そなえつける): to provide, to furnish, to equip, to install 近付く(ちかづく): to approach, to get near, to get acquainted with, to get closer 付き(つき): attached to, impression, sociality, appearance, furnished with, under, to 付き合う(つきあう): to associate with, to keep company with, to get on with 付け加える(つけくわえる): to add one thing to another 付ける(つける): to attach, to join, to stick, to glue, to fasten, to sew on, to furnish (a house with), to wear, to put on, to make an entry, to appraise, to set (a price), to apply (ointment), to bring alongside, to place (under guard or doctor), to follow, to shad 名付ける(なづける): to name (someone) 付属(ふぞく): attached, belonging, affiliated, annexed, associated, subordinate, incidental, dependent, auxiliary 打付ける(ぶつける): to knock, to run into, to nail on, to strike hard, to hit and attack 付録(ふろく): appendix, supplement 結び付き(むすびつき): connection, relation 結び付く(むすびつく): to be connected or related, to join together 結び付ける(むすびつける): to combine, to join, to tie on, to attach with a knot 目付き(めつき): look, expression of the eyes, eyes やっ付ける(やっつける): to beat 言い付ける(いいつける): tell, tell on (someone), to order, to charge, to direct 追い付く(おいつく): overtake, catch up (with) 思い付く(おもいつく): think of, hit upon, come into one´s mind 片付く(かたづく): be put in order, be put to rights, be disposed of, be solved, be finished, be married (off) 気付く(きづく): notice, recognize, become aware of, perceive, realize 寄付(きふ): contribution, donation 気を付ける(きをつける): be careful, pay attention 言付ける(ことづける): send word, send a message 近付ける(ちかづける): bring near, put close, let come near, associate with 付き合い(つきあい): association, socializing, fellowship 付合う(つきあう): associate with, keep company with, get on with 付く(つく): adjoin, be attached, adhere, be connected with, be dyed, be stained, be scarred, be recorded, start (fires), follow, become allied to, accompany, study with, increase, be added to 日付(ひづけ): date 付近(ふきん): neighbourhood, vicinity, environs 見付かる(みつかる): be found, be discovered 見付ける(みつける): discover, find fault, detect, find out, locate, be familiar 受付(うけつけ): reception 片付ける(かたづける): tidy up Kunyomi: つ.ける、-つ.ける、-づ.ける、つ.け、つ.け-、-つ.け、-づ.け、-づけ、つ.く、-づ.く、つ.き、-つ.き、-つき、-づ.き、-づき Onyomi: フ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 付く (つ.く), 付ける (つ.ける)"	"adhere 付 画数5 1075 Details Story Dictionary 付 adhere Heisig's Person . . . glue. The few cases in which this character serves as a primitive should include some connotation of ""adhering to"" that distinguishes it from ""glued to."" Two examples follow. Koohii #1 賀 TO EVERYONE WHO MADE IT TO 千 kanji!! Remember, after this, you´ll be 読ing japanese novels, the news, and the internet like a native. 吉 to ALL of you in your amazing japanese 往. :). Koohii #2 If a PERSON ADHERES to something, they stick to it like GLUE. Primitives adhere, person, glue 受け付ける(うけつける): to be accepted, to receive (an application) 思い付き(おもいつき): plan, idea, suggestion 顔付き(かおつき): (outward) looks, features, face, countenance, expression 片付け(かたづけ): tidying up, finishing 日付(かづけ): date, dating 体付き(からだつき): body build, figure 傷付く(きずつく): to be hurt, to be wounded, to get injured くっ付く(くっつく): to adhere to, to keep close to くっ付ける(くっつける): to attach 交付(こうふ): delivering, furnishing (with copies) 仕付ける(しつける): to be used to a job, to begin to do, to baste, to tack, to plant 据え付ける(すえつける): to install, to equip, to mount 備え付ける(そなえつける): to provide, to furnish, to equip, to install 近付く(ちかづく): to approach, to get near, to get acquainted with, to get closer 付き(つき): attached to, impression, sociality, appearance, furnished with, under, to 付き合う(つきあう): to associate with, to keep company with, to get on with 付け加える(つけくわえる): to add one thing to another 付ける(つける): to attach, to join, to stick, to glue, to fasten, to sew on, to furnish (a house with), to wear, to put on, to make an entry, to appraise, to set (a price), to apply (ointment), to bring alongside, to place (under guard or doctor), to follow, to shad 名付ける(なづける): to name (someone) 付属(ふぞく): attached, belonging, affiliated, annexed, associated, subordinate, incidental, dependent, auxiliary 打付ける(ぶつける): to knock, to run into, to nail on, to strike hard, to hit and attack 付録(ふろく): appendix, supplement 結び付き(むすびつき): connection, relation 結び付く(むすびつく): to be connected or related, to join together 結び付ける(むすびつける): to combine, to join, to tie on, to attach with a knot 目付き(めつき): look, expression of the eyes, eyes やっ付ける(やっつける): to beat 言い付ける(いいつける): tell, tell on (someone), to order, to charge, to direct 追い付く(おいつく): overtake, catch up (with) 思い付く(おもいつく): think of, hit upon, come into one´s mind 片付く(かたづく): be put in order, be put to rights, be disposed of, be solved, be finished, be married (off) 気付く(きづく): notice, recognize, become aware of, perceive, realize 寄付(きふ): contribution, donation 気を付ける(きをつける): be careful, pay attention 言付ける(ことづける): send word, send a message 近付ける(ちかづける): bring near, put close, let come near, associate with 付き合い(つきあい): association, socializing, fellowship 付合う(つきあう): associate with, keep company with, get on with 付く(つく): adjoin, be attached, adhere, be connected with, be dyed, be stained, be scarred, be recorded, start (fires), follow, become allied to, accompany, study with, increase, be added to 日付(ひづけ): date 付近(ふきん): neighbourhood, vicinity, environs 見付かる(みつかる): be found, be discovered 見付ける(みつける): discover, find fault, detect, find out, locate, be familiar 受付(うけつけ): reception 片付ける(かたづける): tidy up Kunyomi: つ.ける、-つ.ける、-づ.ける、つ.け、つ.け-、-つ.け、-づ.け、-づけ、つ.く、-づ.く、つ.き、-つ.き、-つき、-づ.き、-づき Onyomi: フ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 付く (つ.く), 付ける (つ.ける)"
token Details Story Dictionary 符 token Heisig's Bamboo . . . adhere. Koohii #1 I dropped my token down the drain, so I used a piece of bamboo with chewing gum on the end to retrieve it. Koohii #2 At the arcade, Mr. T adheres a bamboo rod to his token so that he can put it in the machine and pull it out repeatedly. Primitives token, bamboo, adhere, sellotape, person, glue 符号(ふごう): sign, mark, symbol 切符(きっぷ): ticket Kunyomi: Onyomi: フ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	token 符 画数11 1076 Details Story Dictionary 符 token Heisig's Bamboo . . . adhere. Koohii #1 I dropped my token down the drain, so I used a piece of bamboo with chewing gum on the end to retrieve it. Koohii #2 At the arcade, Mr. T adheres a bamboo rod to his token so that he can put it in the machine and pull it out repeatedly. Primitives token, bamboo, adhere, sellotape, person, glue 符号(ふごう): sign, mark, symbol 切符(きっぷ): ticket Kunyomi: Onyomi: フ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
municipality Details Story Dictionary 府 municipality My Story [Cave + adhere/stick to] Even if a municipality is in a *cave*, you have to *adhere* to its policies. Koohii #1 A municipality, like any type of government, adheres to having caves for offices (see government office (#591)). Koohii #2 Even if a municipality is in a cave, you have to adhere to its policies. Primitives borough, municipality, cave, adhere, sellotape, person, glue 政府(せいふ): government, administration Kunyomi: Onyomi: フ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	municipality 府 画数8 1077 Details Story Dictionary 府 municipality My Story [Cave + adhere/stick to] Even if a municipality is in a *cave*, you have to *adhere* to its policies. Koohii #1 A municipality, like any type of government, adheres to having caves for offices (see government office (#591)). Koohii #2 Even if a municipality is in a cave, you have to adhere to its policies. Primitives borough, municipality, cave, adhere, sellotape, person, glue 政府(せいふ): government, administration Kunyomi: Onyomi: フ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
responsibility Details Story Dictionary 任 responsibility My Story [Person + King] A *person* living like a *king* has no responsibilities Koohii #1 It is always Mr. T´s responsibility to be the porter and carry around everyone´s luggage because he´s so strong. Koohii #2 In pregnancy (#507), the woman was the porter for the first nine months. Now, as a new father, Mr.T is assuming all the RESPONSIBILITIES that comes with it. Can´t you just see him here as the new porter, wearing a harness with a his little dude (who already has a little matching mohawk)? Primitives responsibility, person, porter, drop, samurai 就任(しゅうにん): inauguration 主任(しゅにん): person in charge, responsible official 信任(しんにん): trust, confidence, credence 転任(てんにん): change of post 任務(にんむ): duty, function, office, mission, task 任命(にんめい): appointment, nomination, ordination, commission, designation 赴任(ふにん): (proceeding to) new appointment 任す(まかす): to entrust, to leave to a person 責任(せきにん): duty, responsibility 任せる(まかせる): entrust to another, leave to, do something at one´s leisure Kunyomi: まか.せる、まか.す Onyomi: ニン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 任す (まか.す), 任せる (まか.せる)	responsibility 任 画数6 1078 Details Story Dictionary 任 responsibility My Story [Person + King] A *person* living like a *king* has no responsibilities Koohii #1 It is always Mr. T´s responsibility to be the porter and carry around everyone´s luggage because he´s so strong. Koohii #2 In pregnancy (#507), the woman was the porter for the first nine months. Now, as a new father, Mr.T is assuming all the RESPONSIBILITIES that comes with it. Can´t you just see him here as the new porter, wearing a harness with a his little dude (who already has a little matching mohawk)? Primitives responsibility, person, porter, drop, samurai 就任(しゅうにん): inauguration 主任(しゅにん): person in charge, responsible official 信任(しんにん): trust, confidence, credence 転任(てんにん): change of post 任務(にんむ): duty, function, office, mission, task 任命(にんめい): appointment, nomination, ordination, commission, designation 赴任(ふにん): (proceeding to) new appointment 任す(まかす): to entrust, to leave to a person 責任(せきにん): duty, responsibility 任せる(まかせる): entrust to another, leave to, do something at one´s leisure Kunyomi: まか.せる、まか.す Onyomi: ニン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 任す (まか.す), 任せる (まか.せる)
"fare Details Story Dictionary 賃 fare My Story The *responsibility* {任} of paying the rent *money* is like a painful blow to my CHIN. Koohii #1 It´s your own responsibility to pay the bus fare with the correct number of shells/money. Koohii #2 In Japan they have automatic ticket gates so you cant easily cheat on your train fare. In England however the ticket gates are fairly open. It is a different kind of system. In England you are given the RESPONSIBILITY to put in the right amount of MONEY, but if you are caught cheating, the fines are stiff and you feel like a real CHINCHIN. ""un.CHIN"". Primitives fare, responsibility, person, porter, drop, samurai, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 運賃(うんちん): freight rates, shipping expenses, fare 賃金(ちんぎん): wages 家賃(やちん): rent Kunyomi: Onyomi: チン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"fare 賃 画数13 1079 Details Story Dictionary 賃 fare My Story The *responsibility* {任} of paying the rent *money* is like a painful blow to my CHIN. Koohii #1 It´s your own responsibility to pay the bus fare with the correct number of shells/money. Koohii #2 In Japan they have automatic ticket gates so you cant easily cheat on your train fare. In England however the ticket gates are fairly open. It is a different kind of system. In England you are given the RESPONSIBILITY to put in the right amount of MONEY, but if you are caught cheating, the fines are stiff and you feel like a real CHINCHIN. ""un.CHIN"". Primitives fare, responsibility, person, porter, drop, samurai, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 運賃(うんちん): freight rates, shipping expenses, fare 賃金(ちんぎん): wages 家賃(やちん): rent Kunyomi: Onyomi: チン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"substitute Details Story Dictionary 代 substitute Heisig's Person . . . arrow. Koohii #1 Mister T substitutes an arrow for a toothpick -- The keyword meaning is to replace something with something else, to act for another, to represent. It´s best to stick to the first meaning, because the last two are very close to ""mediator"" which will come in frame 1761. The idea here is that the arrow is not a toothpick, neither it is changed into one, but it can substitute for one. Koohii #2 Mr. T shot the substitute teacher with an arrow. Primitives substitute, person, arrow 代える(かえる): to exchange, to interchange, to substitute, to replace 代わる(かわる): to take the place of, to relieve, to be substituted for, to be exchanged, to change places with, to take turns, to be replaced 代わる代わる(かわるがわる): alternately 古代(こだい): ancient times 代(しろ): price, materials, substitution 世代(せだい): generation, the world, the age 先代(せんだい): family predecessor, previous age, previous generation 代弁(だいべん): pay by proxy, act for another, speak for another 代用(だいよう): substitution お代わり(おかわり): second helping, another cup 代る(かわる): take the place of, relieve, be substituted for, be exchanged, change places with, take turns, be replaced 近代(きんだい): present day 現代(げんだい): nowadays, modern times, present-day 代金(だいきん): price, payment, cost, charge, the money, the bill 代表(だいひょう): representative, representation, delegation, type, example, model 代名詞(だいめいし): pronoun 代理(だいり): representation, agency, proxy, deputy, agent, attorney, substitute, alternate, acting (principal, etc.) 年代(ねんだい): age, era, period, date 代わり(かわり): instead of 時代(じだい): age, period, generation Kunyomi: か.わる、かわ.る、かわ.り、-がわ.り、か.える、よ、しろ Onyomi: ダイ、タイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 代理 (だいり), 世代 (せだい), 現代 (げんだい), 代える (か.える), 代わる (か.わる), 代 (しろ), 代 (よ)"	"substitute 代 画数5 1080 Details Story Dictionary 代 substitute Heisig's Person . . . arrow. Koohii #1 Mister T substitutes an arrow for a toothpick -- The keyword meaning is to replace something with something else, to act for another, to represent. It´s best to stick to the first meaning, because the last two are very close to ""mediator"" which will come in frame 1761. The idea here is that the arrow is not a toothpick, neither it is changed into one, but it can substitute for one. Koohii #2 Mr. T shot the substitute teacher with an arrow. Primitives substitute, person, arrow 代える(かえる): to exchange, to interchange, to substitute, to replace 代わる(かわる): to take the place of, to relieve, to be substituted for, to be exchanged, to change places with, to take turns, to be replaced 代わる代わる(かわるがわる): alternately 古代(こだい): ancient times 代(しろ): price, materials, substitution 世代(せだい): generation, the world, the age 先代(せんだい): family predecessor, previous age, previous generation 代弁(だいべん): pay by proxy, act for another, speak for another 代用(だいよう): substitution お代わり(おかわり): second helping, another cup 代る(かわる): take the place of, relieve, be substituted for, be exchanged, change places with, take turns, be replaced 近代(きんだい): present day 現代(げんだい): nowadays, modern times, present-day 代金(だいきん): price, payment, cost, charge, the money, the bill 代表(だいひょう): representative, representation, delegation, type, example, model 代名詞(だいめいし): pronoun 代理(だいり): representation, agency, proxy, deputy, agent, attorney, substitute, alternate, acting (principal, etc.) 年代(ねんだい): age, era, period, date 代わり(かわり): instead of 時代(じだい): age, period, generation Kunyomi: か.わる、かわ.る、かわ.り、-がわ.り、か.える、よ、しろ Onyomi: ダイ、タイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 代理 (だいり), 世代 (せだい), 現代 (げんだい), 代える (か.える), 代わる (か.わる), 代 (しろ), 代 (よ)"
"sack Details Story Dictionary 袋 sack My Story A *generation* of *cloth* (LID + KICK IN BALLS) was stashed in a sack Koohii #1 A sack is an easy substitute for a garment. Koohii #2 A worker who was recently sacked from his job, is wearing a sack of potatoes as a substitute garment (naked otherwise), in some kind of protest. The kanji is close to frame 1547 ""bag"", and although the later really refers to a ""straw sack"", I use the image of a sack of potatoes here, and that of a ""plastic bag"" for frame 1547. The keywords would have been better swapped in my opinion, but the relevancy is not so important at this point (see notes of Lesson 31 in the book). Primitives sack, substitute, person, arrow, garment 足袋(たび): Japanese socks (with split toe) 袋(ふくろ): bag, sack 手袋(てぶくろ): gloves Kunyomi: ふくろ Onyomi: タイ、ダイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 袋 (ふくろ)"	"sack 袋 画数11 1081 Details Story Dictionary 袋 sack My Story A *generation* of *cloth* (LID + KICK IN BALLS) was stashed in a sack Koohii #1 A sack is an easy substitute for a garment. Koohii #2 A worker who was recently sacked from his job, is wearing a sack of potatoes as a substitute garment (naked otherwise), in some kind of protest. The kanji is close to frame 1547 ""bag"", and although the later really refers to a ""straw sack"", I use the image of a sack of potatoes here, and that of a ""plastic bag"" for frame 1547. The keywords would have been better swapped in my opinion, but the relevancy is not so important at this point (see notes of Lesson 31 in the book). Primitives sack, substitute, person, arrow, garment 足袋(たび): Japanese socks (with split toe) 袋(ふくろ): bag, sack 手袋(てぶくろ): gloves Kunyomi: ふくろ Onyomi: タイ、ダイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 袋 (ふくろ)"
lend Details Story Dictionary 貸 lend My Story [ time period/ generation {代} + shellfish/money] A *generation* asked their elders to lend them some money/shellfish 貸す(かす) Koohii #1 In order for the bank to lend you money, you need to put up some sort of collateral as a substitute for the money. Koohii #2 The poor substitute teacher asks the class to lend him some money for the bus fare home. Primitives lend, substitute, person, arrow, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 貸し(かし): loan, lending 貸し出し(かしだし): lending, loaning 貸間(かしま): room to let 貸家(かしや): house for rent 貸す(かす): lend Kunyomi: か.す、か.し-、かし- Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 貸す (か.す)	lend 貸 画数12 1082 Details Story Dictionary 貸 lend My Story [ time period/ generation {代} + shellfish/money] A *generation* asked their elders to lend them some money/shellfish 貸す(かす) Koohii #1 In order for the bank to lend you money, you need to put up some sort of collateral as a substitute for the money. Koohii #2 The poor substitute teacher asks the class to lend him some money for the bus fare home. Primitives lend, substitute, person, arrow, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 貸し(かし): loan, lending 貸し出し(かしだし): lending, loaning 貸間(かしま): room to let 貸家(かしや): house for rent 貸す(かす): lend Kunyomi: か.す、か.し-、かし- Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 貸す (か.す)
"change Details Story Dictionary 化 change Heisig's Person . . . spoon. Koohii #1 Referring to a scene in the movie ""The Matrix"" where a girl bends a spoon with the power of her mind alone, I imagine Mister T who changes a spoon into something else (maybe the waiter forgot to bring knives or forks). Note: as a primitive, it can help to use the image of ""spare change"", this can help you keep it distinct from other similar kanji such as ""shape"" or ""turn into"". Koohii #2 Mr. T reaches into his wallet for some spare change but it has all changed into spoons. Primitives change, person, spoon, sitting on the ground 悪化(あっか): deterioration, growing worse, aggravation, degeneration, corruption 化合(かごう): chemical combination 化する(かする): to change into, to convert into, to transform, to be reduced, to influence, to improve (someone) 化石(かせき): fossil, petrifaction, fossilization 化繊(かせん): synthetic fibres 誤魔化す(ごまかす): to deceive, to falsify, to misrepresent 酸化(さんか): oxidation 進化(しんか): evolution, progress 退化(たいか): degeneration, retrogression 化ける(ばける): to appear in disguise, to take the form of, to change for the worse 文化財(ぶんかざい): cultural assets, cultural property 化学(かがく): chemistry 強化(きょうか): strengthen, intensify, reinforce, solidify 化粧(けしょう): make-up (cosmetic) 消化(しょうか): digestion 変化(へんか): change, variation, alteration, mutation, transition, transformation, variety, diversity, inflection, declension, conjugation 文化(ぶんか): culture Kunyomi: ば.ける、ば.かす、ふ.ける、け.する Onyomi: カ、ケ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 化石 (かせき), 化学 (かがく), 文化 (ぶんか), 化かす (ば.かす), 化ける (ば.ける)"	"change 化 画数4 1083 Details Story Dictionary 化 change Heisig's Person . . . spoon. Koohii #1 Referring to a scene in the movie ""The Matrix"" where a girl bends a spoon with the power of her mind alone, I imagine Mister T who changes a spoon into something else (maybe the waiter forgot to bring knives or forks). Note: as a primitive, it can help to use the image of ""spare change"", this can help you keep it distinct from other similar kanji such as ""shape"" or ""turn into"". Koohii #2 Mr. T reaches into his wallet for some spare change but it has all changed into spoons. Primitives change, person, spoon, sitting on the ground 悪化(あっか): deterioration, growing worse, aggravation, degeneration, corruption 化合(かごう): chemical combination 化する(かする): to change into, to convert into, to transform, to be reduced, to influence, to improve (someone) 化石(かせき): fossil, petrifaction, fossilization 化繊(かせん): synthetic fibres 誤魔化す(ごまかす): to deceive, to falsify, to misrepresent 酸化(さんか): oxidation 進化(しんか): evolution, progress 退化(たいか): degeneration, retrogression 化ける(ばける): to appear in disguise, to take the form of, to change for the worse 文化財(ぶんかざい): cultural assets, cultural property 化学(かがく): chemistry 強化(きょうか): strengthen, intensify, reinforce, solidify 化粧(けしょう): make-up (cosmetic) 消化(しょうか): digestion 変化(へんか): change, variation, alteration, mutation, transition, transformation, variety, diversity, inflection, declension, conjugation 文化(ぶんか): culture Kunyomi: ば.ける、ば.かす、ふ.ける、け.する Onyomi: カ、ケ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 化石 (かせき), 化学 (かがく), 文化 (ぶんか), 化かす (ば.かす), 化ける (ば.ける)"
flower Details Story Dictionary 花 flower Heisig's Flower . . . change. Koohii #1 The flowers change with the seasons. Koohii #2 The flower is the essence of transience. So, the conceptual flower involves both the concept of flower plus change. Primitives flowers, change, person, spoon, sitting on the ground 花壇(かだん): flower bed 花粉(かふん): pollen 花びら(はなびら): (flower) petal 火花(ひばな): spark 生け花(いけばな): flower arrangement 花火(はなび): fireworks 花見(はなみ): cherry blossom viewing, flower viewing 花嫁(はなよめ): bride 花瓶(かびん): (flower) vase 花(はな): flower Kunyomi: はな Onyomi: カ、ケ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 花 (はな)	flower 花 画数7 1084 Details Story Dictionary 花 flower Heisig's Flower . . . change. Koohii #1 The flowers change with the seasons. Koohii #2 The flower is the essence of transience. So, the conceptual flower involves both the concept of flower plus change. Primitives flowers, change, person, spoon, sitting on the ground 花壇(かだん): flower bed 花粉(かふん): pollen 花びら(はなびら): (flower) petal 火花(ひばな): spark 生け花(いけばな): flower arrangement 花火(はなび): fireworks 花見(はなみ): cherry blossom viewing, flower viewing 花嫁(はなよめ): bride 花瓶(かびん): (flower) vase 花(はな): flower Kunyomi: はな Onyomi: カ、ケ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 花 (はな)
freight Details Story Dictionary 貨 freight Heisig's Change . . . shells. Koohii #1 Freight is the shells (money) paid to change the location of something big. Don´t confuse with the similar 賃 fare (#1004). Koohii #2 This is a freight train that runs on spare change. Imagine getting on the freight train with a bunch of spare change. You put in some change and it starts up...goes for a few minutes, then starts to slow down. You look at the slot..there´s actually a slot for spare change and one for regular shells. Your call, but it seems to prefer spare change over shells. Primitives freight, change, person, spoon, sitting on the ground, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 外貨(がいか): imported goods, foreign money 貨幣(かへい): money, currency, coinage 雑貨(ざっか): miscellaneous goods, general goods, sundries 貨物(かもつ): cargo, freight, money or assets 硬貨(こうか): coin 通貨(つうか): currency Kunyomi: たから Onyomi: カ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	freight 貨 画数11 1085 Details Story Dictionary 貨 freight Heisig's Change . . . shells. Koohii #1 Freight is the shells (money) paid to change the location of something big. Don´t confuse with the similar 賃 fare (#1004). Koohii #2 This is a freight train that runs on spare change. Imagine getting on the freight train with a bunch of spare change. You put in some change and it starts up...goes for a few minutes, then starts to slow down. You look at the slot..there´s actually a slot for spare change and one for regular shells. Your call, but it seems to prefer spare change over shells. Primitives freight, change, person, spoon, sitting on the ground, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 外貨(がいか): imported goods, foreign money 貨幣(かへい): money, currency, coinage 雑貨(ざっか): miscellaneous goods, general goods, sundries 貨物(かもつ): cargo, freight, money or assets 硬貨(こうか): coin 通貨(つうか): currency Kunyomi: たから Onyomi: カ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
lean Details Story Dictionary 傾 lean Heisig's Change . . . head. The key word has the sense of leaning on or toward someone or something. Koohii #1 Mr. T gave a girl some change to lean over and give him head. Koohii #2 Leaning over changes the position of the head...　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ケイ　傾向　けいこう(tendency). Primitives lean, change, person, about that time, spoon, sitting on the ground, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 傾く(かたぶく): to incline toward, to slant, to lurch, to heel over, to be disposed to, to trend toward, to be prone to, to go down (sun), to wane, to sink, to decline 傾ける(かたむける): to incline, to list, to bend, to lean, to tip, to tilt, to slant, to concentrate on, to ruin (a country), to squander, to empty 傾(けい): lean, incline 傾斜(けいしゃ): inclination, slant, slope, bevel, list, dip 傾く(かたむく): incline toward, slant, lurch, be disposed to, go down (sun), wane, sink, decline 傾向(けいこう): tendency, trend, inclination 傾らか(なだらか): gently-sloping, gentle, easy Kunyomi: かたむ.く、かたむ.ける、かたぶ.く、かた.げる、かし.げる Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 傾く (かたむ.く), 傾ける (かたむ.ける)	lean 傾 画数13 1086 Details Story Dictionary 傾 lean Heisig's Change . . . head. The key word has the sense of leaning on or toward someone or something. Koohii #1 Mr. T gave a girl some change to lean over and give him head. Koohii #2 Leaning over changes the position of the head...　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ケイ　傾向　けいこう(tendency). Primitives lean, change, person, about that time, spoon, sitting on the ground, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 傾く(かたぶく): to incline toward, to slant, to lurch, to heel over, to be disposed to, to trend toward, to be prone to, to go down (sun), to wane, to sink, to decline 傾ける(かたむける): to incline, to list, to bend, to lean, to tip, to tilt, to slant, to concentrate on, to ruin (a country), to squander, to empty 傾(けい): lean, incline 傾斜(けいしゃ): inclination, slant, slope, bevel, list, dip 傾く(かたむく): incline toward, slant, lurch, be disposed to, go down (sun), wane, sink, decline 傾向(けいこう): tendency, trend, inclination 傾らか(なだらか): gently-sloping, gentle, easy Kunyomi: かたむ.く、かたむ.ける、かたぶ.く、かた.げる、かし.げる Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 傾く (かたむ.く), 傾ける (かたむ.ける)
what Details Story Dictionary 何 what Heisig's Person . . . can. Koohii #1 What can Mr T do? ´You mean: what can´t MR T do, you fool´. Koohii #2 What can´t Mr. T not do? Primitives what, person, can, mouth, street, nail, spike 如何(いかが): how, in what way 如何に(いかに): how?, in what way?, how much?, however, whatever 如何にも(いかにも): indeed, really, phrase meaning agreement 何れ(いずれ): where, which, who, anyway, anyhow, at any rate 何時(いつ): when, how soon 何時か(いつか): sometime, some day 何時でも(いつでも): (at) any time, always, at all times, never (neg), whenever 何時の間にか(いつのまにか): before one knows, unnoticed, unawares 何時も(いつも): always, usually, every time, never (with neg. verb) 如何しても(どうしても): by all means, at any cost, no matter what, after all, in the long run, cravingly, at any rate, surely 何方(どちら): which, who 何の(どの): which, what 何れ(どれ): well, now, let me see, which (of three or more) 何々(どれどれ): which (emphatic) 何故(なぜ): why, how 何気ない(なにげない): casual, unconcerned 何しろ(なにしろ): at any rate, anyhow, anyway, in any case 何卒(なにとぞ): please 何も(なにも): nothing 何より(なにより): most, best 何だか(なんだか): a little, somewhat, somehow 何て(なんて): how...!, what...! 何と(なんと): what, how, whatever 何となく(なんとなく): somehow or other, for some reason or another 何とも(なんとも): nothing (with neg. verb), quite, not a bit 何なり(なんなり): any, anything, whatever 何か(なにか): something 何々(なになに): such and such, What?, What is the matter? 何分(なにぶん): anyway, please 何で(なんで): Why? What for? 何でも(なんでも): by all means, everything 何とか(なんとか): somehow, anyhow, one way or another 何(なに): what Kunyomi: なに、なん、なに-、なん- Onyomi: カ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 何 (なに)	what 何 画数7 1087 Details Story Dictionary 何 what Heisig's Person . . . can. Koohii #1 What can Mr T do? ´You mean: what can´t MR T do, you fool´. Koohii #2 What can´t Mr. T not do? Primitives what, person, can, mouth, street, nail, spike 如何(いかが): how, in what way 如何に(いかに): how?, in what way?, how much?, however, whatever 如何にも(いかにも): indeed, really, phrase meaning agreement 何れ(いずれ): where, which, who, anyway, anyhow, at any rate 何時(いつ): when, how soon 何時か(いつか): sometime, some day 何時でも(いつでも): (at) any time, always, at all times, never (neg), whenever 何時の間にか(いつのまにか): before one knows, unnoticed, unawares 何時も(いつも): always, usually, every time, never (with neg. verb) 如何しても(どうしても): by all means, at any cost, no matter what, after all, in the long run, cravingly, at any rate, surely 何方(どちら): which, who 何の(どの): which, what 何れ(どれ): well, now, let me see, which (of three or more) 何々(どれどれ): which (emphatic) 何故(なぜ): why, how 何気ない(なにげない): casual, unconcerned 何しろ(なにしろ): at any rate, anyhow, anyway, in any case 何卒(なにとぞ): please 何も(なにも): nothing 何より(なにより): most, best 何だか(なんだか): a little, somewhat, somehow 何て(なんて): how...!, what...! 何と(なんと): what, how, whatever 何となく(なんとなく): somehow or other, for some reason or another 何とも(なんとも): nothing (with neg. verb), quite, not a bit 何なり(なんなり): any, anything, whatever 何か(なにか): something 何々(なになに): such and such, What?, What is the matter? 何分(なにぶん): anyway, please 何で(なんで): Why? What for? 何でも(なんでも): by all means, everything 何とか(なんとか): somehow, anyhow, one way or another 何(なに): what Kunyomi: なに、なん、なに-、なん- Onyomi: カ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 何 (なに)
"baggage Details Story Dictionary 荷 baggage Heisig's Flowers . . . what. Koohii #1 TSA guard: What´s in the baggage?! It´s just flowers, I swear! Koohii #2 Your girlfriend arrives at the airport. You give her flowers, but she brushes you off and says ""here, carry my BAGGAGE."" Dumbfounded at her rudeness, you say, ""what?"". Primitives baggage, flowers, what, person, can, mouth, street, nail, spike 荷(に): load, baggage, cargo 荷造り(にづくり): packing, baling, crating 荷物(にもつ): baggage, luggage Kunyomi: に Onyomi: カ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 荷 (に)"	"baggage 荷 画数10 1088 Details Story Dictionary 荷 baggage Heisig's Flowers . . . what. Koohii #1 TSA guard: What´s in the baggage?! It´s just flowers, I swear! Koohii #2 Your girlfriend arrives at the airport. You give her flowers, but she brushes you off and says ""here, carry my BAGGAGE."" Dumbfounded at her rudeness, you say, ""what?"". Primitives baggage, flowers, what, person, can, mouth, street, nail, spike 荷(に): load, baggage, cargo 荷造り(にづくり): packing, baling, crating 荷物(にもつ): baggage, luggage Kunyomi: に Onyomi: カ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 荷 (に)"
sagacious Details Story Dictionary 俊 sagacious Heisig's Person . . . license . . . walking legs. Koohii #1 The entire town wants to get rid of legal prostitutes, but the sagacious Mr T realizes that they are a benefit to the economy and society. So he lets the sa-geishas stay. Koohii #2 (re: sweetneet) Since he is not very sagacious, Mr. T failed his driver´s license and now needs to resort to his walking legs to get around. Primitives sagacious, person, streetwalker, Ministry of silly walks, John Cleese, license, elbow, human legs, walking legs Kunyomi: Onyomi: シュン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	sagacious 俊 画数9 1089 Details Story Dictionary 俊 sagacious Heisig's Person . . . license . . . walking legs. Koohii #1 The entire town wants to get rid of legal prostitutes, but the sagacious Mr T realizes that they are a benefit to the economy and society. So he lets the sa-geishas stay. Koohii #2 (re: sweetneet) Since he is not very sagacious, Mr. T failed his driver´s license and now needs to resort to his walking legs to get around. Primitives sagacious, person, streetwalker, Ministry of silly walks, John Cleese, license, elbow, human legs, walking legs Kunyomi: Onyomi: シュン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
bystander Details Story Dictionary 傍 bystander Heisig's Person . . . stand . . . crown . . . compass. Koohii #1 In Japan, the emperor is a bystander - he stands on his crown but can´t really affect the direction of the country. (thx shimouma). Koohii #2 Mr. T is in the street, standing up, wearing an golden crown and a compass in his hand... he´s asking the bystander if they know how to get to buckingham palace (!). Primitives bystander, person, traffic cop, fez, vase, stand up, crown, compass, direction 傍ら(かたわら): beside(s), while, nearby Kunyomi: かたわ.ら、わき、おか-、はた、そば Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 傍ら (かたわ.ら)	bystander 傍 画数12 1090 Details Story Dictionary 傍 bystander Heisig's Person . . . stand . . . crown . . . compass. Koohii #1 In Japan, the emperor is a bystander - he stands on his crown but can´t really affect the direction of the country. (thx shimouma). Koohii #2 Mr. T is in the street, standing up, wearing an golden crown and a compass in his hand... he´s asking the bystander if they know how to get to buckingham palace (!). Primitives bystander, person, traffic cop, fez, vase, stand up, crown, compass, direction 傍ら(かたわら): beside(s), while, nearby Kunyomi: かたわ.ら、わき、おか-、はた、そば Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 傍ら (かたわ.ら)
"myself Details Story Dictionary 俺 myself Heisig's The key word refers to a very familiar way of referring to oneself, typically used by men. Its component elements: person . . . St. Bernard . . . eel. Koohii #1 I did it all by myself! Mr T stands there proud as holding a moray eel in his hand. He´s brought down terrorist organisations, drug syndicates, but gets all worked up when catching a fish... what a guy. Koohii #2 As astridtops mentions, this is ""Ore"". In Japanese r = l, so could write it ""Ole"". So picture a bullfight with person as the matador and a dachshund replacing the bull. The crowd keep shouting ""Ole! (Ore)"". Primitives myself, person, dachshund, large, St. Bernard, eel, sun, day 俺(おれ): I (ego) (boastful first-person pronoun) Kunyomi: おれ、われ Onyomi: エン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 俺 (おれ)"	"myself 俺 画数10 1091 Details Story Dictionary 俺 myself Heisig's The key word refers to a very familiar way of referring to oneself, typically used by men. Its component elements: person . . . St. Bernard . . . eel. Koohii #1 I did it all by myself! Mr T stands there proud as holding a moray eel in his hand. He´s brought down terrorist organisations, drug syndicates, but gets all worked up when catching a fish... what a guy. Koohii #2 As astridtops mentions, this is ""Ore"". In Japanese r = l, so could write it ""Ole"". So picture a bullfight with person as the matador and a dachshund replacing the bull. The crowd keep shouting ""Ole! (Ore)"". Primitives myself, person, dachshund, large, St. Bernard, eel, sun, day 俺(おれ): I (ego) (boastful first-person pronoun) Kunyomi: おれ、われ Onyomi: エン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 俺 (おれ)"
"long time Details Story Dictionary 久 long time Heisig's This character uses the diagonal sweep of the second stroke to double up for bound up and a person. Think of a mummy, and the key word will not be far behind. Koohii #1 Note: this is the ひさ in ひさしぶり . Long time no see mummy! (A bound up person). Koohii #2 This is a picture of a person bowing ""long time no see!"". Primitives long time, bound up, person, mummy 久しい(ひさしい): long, long-continued, old (story) 久し振り(ひさしぶり): after a long time 永久(えいきゅう): eternity, perpetuity, immortality 久しぶり(ひさしぶり): after a long time, long time (no see) Kunyomi: ひさ.しい Onyomi: キュウ、ク Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 永久 (えいきゅう), 持久 (じきゅう), 耐久 (たいきゅう), 久しい (ひさ.しい)"	"long time 久 画数3 1092 Details Story Dictionary 久 long time Heisig's This character uses the diagonal sweep of the second stroke to double up for bound up and a person. Think of a mummy, and the key word will not be far behind. Koohii #1 Note: this is the ひさ in ひさしぶり . Long time no see mummy! (A bound up person). Koohii #2 This is a picture of a person bowing ""long time no see!"". Primitives long time, bound up, person, mummy 久しい(ひさしい): long, long-continued, old (story) 久し振り(ひさしぶり): after a long time 永久(えいきゅう): eternity, perpetuity, immortality 久しぶり(ひさしぶり): after a long time, long time (no see) Kunyomi: ひさ.しい Onyomi: キュウ、ク Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 永久 (えいきゅう), 持久 (じきゅう), 耐久 (たいきゅう), 久しい (ひさ.しい)"
furrow Details Story Dictionary 畝 furrow Heisig's Think of the three kinds of furrows shown here in this character - a top hat's rim, a rice field's ridges, and the wrinkles that show you've been around a long time. Koohii #1 Using a TOP HAT to make FURROWS in the RICE FIELD takes a LONG TIME! Koohii #2 A mummy tries to furrow his brow but realizes that he´s got no head - just a brain with a top-hat on it. So he furrows his brain. [trigger: furrow your brain]. Primitives furrow, top hat, rice field, brains, long time, mummy, bound up, person Kunyomi: せ、うね Onyomi: ボウ、ホ、モ、ム Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 畝 (うね), 畝 (せ)	furrow 畝 画数10 1093 Details Story Dictionary 畝 furrow Heisig's Think of the three kinds of furrows shown here in this character - a top hat's rim, a rice field's ridges, and the wrinkles that show you've been around a long time. Koohii #1 Using a TOP HAT to make FURROWS in the RICE FIELD takes a LONG TIME! Koohii #2 A mummy tries to furrow his brow but realizes that he´s got no head - just a brain with a top-hat on it. So he furrows his brain. [trigger: furrow your brain]. Primitives furrow, top hat, rice field, brains, long time, mummy, bound up, person Kunyomi: せ、うね Onyomi: ボウ、ホ、モ、ム Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 畝 (うね), 畝 (せ)
captured Details Story Dictionary 囚 captured Heisig's Person . . . pent in. Koohii #1 A person pent in is obviously captured. Imagine a man put inside a wooden box, his evil capturers waiting for ransom money. Koohii #2 Mr. T can´t be captured. This kanji is lying. Primitives captured, pent in, person Kunyomi: とら.われる Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	captured 囚 画数5 1094 Details Story Dictionary 囚 captured Heisig's Person . . . pent in. Koohii #1 A person pent in is obviously captured. Imagine a man put inside a wooden box, his evil capturers waiting for ransom money. Koohii #2 Mr. T can´t be captured. This kanji is lying. Primitives captured, pent in, person Kunyomi: とら.われる Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
inside Details Story Dictionary 内 inside Heisig's Person . . . belt. Note that we cannot use the primitive meaning of hood here because the person runs THROUGH the element, not under it. Koohii #1 Mr. T´s new belt is huge! When he´s inside it, his feet no longer touch the ground! Koohii #2 How is a person ever supposed to get inside that girl when she´s wearing such a huge chastity belt? I guess that´s kinda the point, eh? Primitives inside, person, belt 内(うち): inside 内訳(うちわけ): the items, breakdown, classification 内閣(ないかく): cabinet, (government) ministry 内臓(ないぞう): internal organs, intestines, viscera 内部(ないぶ): interior, inside, internal 内乱(ないらん): civil war, insurrection, rebellion, domestic conflict 内陸(ないりく): inland 案内(あんない): information, guidance 内科(ないか): internist clinic, internal medicine 内線(ないせん): phone extension, indoor wiring, inner line 内容(ないよう): subject, contents, matter, substance, detail, import 以内(いない): within 家内(かない): (my) wife Kunyomi: うち Onyomi: ナイ、ダイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 内外 (ないがい), 内容 (ないよう), 家内 (かない), 内 (うち)	inside 内 画数4 1095 Details Story Dictionary 内 inside Heisig's Person . . . belt. Note that we cannot use the primitive meaning of hood here because the person runs THROUGH the element, not under it. Koohii #1 Mr. T´s new belt is huge! When he´s inside it, his feet no longer touch the ground! Koohii #2 How is a person ever supposed to get inside that girl when she´s wearing such a huge chastity belt? I guess that´s kinda the point, eh? Primitives inside, person, belt 内(うち): inside 内訳(うちわけ): the items, breakdown, classification 内閣(ないかく): cabinet, (government) ministry 内臓(ないぞう): internal organs, intestines, viscera 内部(ないぶ): interior, inside, internal 内乱(ないらん): civil war, insurrection, rebellion, domestic conflict 内陸(ないりく): inland 案内(あんない): information, guidance 内科(ないか): internist clinic, internal medicine 内線(ないせん): phone extension, indoor wiring, inner line 内容(ないよう): subject, contents, matter, substance, detail, import 以内(いない): within 家内(かない): (my) wife Kunyomi: うち Onyomi: ナイ、ダイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 内外 (ないがい), 内容 (ないよう), 家内 (かない), 内 (うち)
"third class Details Story Dictionary 丙 third class Heisig's Those no-frills flights the airlines offer to attract customers should help create an image from ceiling . . . person . . . belt. The kanji meaning ""inside"" should not be used because of its proximity to the element for ""in."" Koohii #1 In this third class flight, the seatbelts are so bad that with the slightest turbulence all the persons hit the ceiling. (it´s almost pictographic here!). Koohii #2 But third class is so small Mr. T´s head hits the celing. Primitives third class, one, ceiling, inside, person, belt Kunyomi: ひのえ Onyomi: ヘイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"third class 丙 画数5 1096 Details Story Dictionary 丙 third class Heisig's Those no-frills flights the airlines offer to attract customers should help create an image from ceiling . . . person . . . belt. The kanji meaning ""inside"" should not be used because of its proximity to the element for ""in."" Koohii #1 In this third class flight, the seatbelts are so bad that with the slightest turbulence all the persons hit the ceiling. (it´s almost pictographic here!). Koohii #2 But third class is so small Mr. T´s head hits the celing. Primitives third class, one, ceiling, inside, person, belt Kunyomi: ひのえ Onyomi: ヘイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"design Details Story Dictionary 柄 design Heisig's Tree . . . third class. Koohii #1 This is a ""design"" as in a ""pattern"", not a verb as in ""to design"". The tree grain design was too expensive for the third class airline to use for the panelling. They just painted it. Koohii #2 Half Way!!!! Primitives design, tree, wood, third class, one, ceiling, inside, person, belt 間柄(あいだがら): relation(ship) 柄(え): handle, grip 大柄(おおがら): large build, large pattern 小柄(こがら): short (build) 事柄(ことがら): matter, thing, affair, circumstance 人柄(ひとがら): personality, character, personal appearance, gentility 柄(がら): pattern, design Kunyomi: がら、え、つか Onyomi: ヘイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 柄 (え), 柄 (がら)"	"design 柄 画数9 1097 Details Story Dictionary 柄 design Heisig's Tree . . . third class. Koohii #1 This is a ""design"" as in a ""pattern"", not a verb as in ""to design"". The tree grain design was too expensive for the third class airline to use for the panelling. They just painted it. Koohii #2 Half Way!!!! Primitives design, tree, wood, third class, one, ceiling, inside, person, belt 間柄(あいだがら): relation(ship) 柄(え): handle, grip 大柄(おおがら): large build, large pattern 小柄(こがら): short (build) 事柄(ことがら): matter, thing, affair, circumstance 人柄(ひとがら): personality, character, personal appearance, gentility 柄(がら): pattern, design Kunyomi: がら、え、つか Onyomi: ヘイ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 柄 (え), 柄 (がら)"
"meat Details Story Dictionary 肉 meat Heisig's Let this doubling of one of the elements for ""inside"" yield the sense of ""insides"" to approach the key word, meat. The abbreviated form of this character gave us the primitive meaning of flesh or part of the body for the kanji 月. Koohii #1 Here we are looking at an x-ray of a cannibal whose insides are full on people-meat. Koohii #2 A person´s inside - fleshy, raw, pink, meat. Primitives meat, person, inside, belt, person, person2 肉親(にくしん): blood relationship, blood relative 肉体(にくたい): the body, the flesh 筋肉(きんにく): muscle, sinew 皮肉(ひにく): cynicism, sarcasm, irony, satire 牛肉(ぎゅうにく): beef 肉(にく): meat 豚肉(ぶたにく): pork Kunyomi: しし Onyomi: ニク Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:"	"meat 肉 画数6 1098 Details Story Dictionary 肉 meat Heisig's Let this doubling of one of the elements for ""inside"" yield the sense of ""insides"" to approach the key word, meat. The abbreviated form of this character gave us the primitive meaning of flesh or part of the body for the kanji 月. Koohii #1 Here we are looking at an x-ray of a cannibal whose insides are full on people-meat. Koohii #2 A person´s inside - fleshy, raw, pink, meat. Primitives meat, person, inside, belt, person, person2 肉親(にくしん): blood relationship, blood relative 肉体(にくたい): the body, the flesh 筋肉(きんにく): muscle, sinew 皮肉(ひにく): cynicism, sarcasm, irony, satire 牛肉(ぎゅうにく): beef 肉(にく): meat 豚肉(ぶたにく): pork Kunyomi: しし Onyomi: ニク Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:"
rot Details Story Dictionary 腐 rot Heisig's Municipality . . . meat. Koohii #1 The rotting meat adheres to the cave walls. Koohii #2 Smaller municipalities are well known for filling their budgets with pork (meat). Thats why they are also well known for being rotten. Primitives rot, borough, municipality, cave, adhere, sellotape, person, glue, meat, inside, belt, person, person2 腐敗(ふはい): decay, depravity 腐る(くさる): rot, go bad Kunyomi: くさ.る、-くさ.る、くさ.れる、くさ.れ、くさ.らす、くさ.す Onyomi: フ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 腐らす (くさ.らす), 腐る (くさ.る), 腐れる (くさ.れる)	rot 腐 画数14 1099 Details Story Dictionary 腐 rot Heisig's Municipality . . . meat. Koohii #1 The rotting meat adheres to the cave walls. Koohii #2 Smaller municipalities are well known for filling their budgets with pork (meat). Thats why they are also well known for being rotten. Primitives rot, borough, municipality, cave, adhere, sellotape, person, glue, meat, inside, belt, person, person2 腐敗(ふはい): decay, depravity 腐る(くさる): rot, go bad Kunyomi: くさ.る、-くさ.る、くさ.れる、くさ.れ、くさ.らす、くさ.す Onyomi: フ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 腐らす (くさ.らす), 腐る (くさ.る), 腐れる (くさ.れる)
sit Details Story Dictionary 座 sit Heisig's Cave . . . assembly line . . . soil. Koohii #1 CONGRATULATIONS YOU´RE HALFWAY THERE!!!! =). Koohii #2 Coal mine (cave); tea break time; the assembly line stops and everyone sit or squat on the dirt floor, in a long line, to rest. Primitives squat, sit, cave, shire, assembly line, person, soil, dirt, ground, person2 ご座います(ございます): to be (polite), to exist 座談会(ざだんかい): symposium, round-table discussion 座標(ざひょう): coordinate(s) 星座(せいざ): constellation 即座に(そくざに): immediately, right away 座敷(ざしき): tatami room 座席(ざせき): seat 座布団(ざぶとん): cushion (Japanese-- square cushion used when sitting on one´s knees on a tatami-mat floor) 座る(すわる): sit Kunyomi: すわ.る Onyomi: ザ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 座る (すわ.る)	sit 座 画数10 1100 Details Story Dictionary 座 sit Heisig's Cave . . . assembly line . . . soil. Koohii #1 CONGRATULATIONS YOU´RE HALFWAY THERE!!!! =). Koohii #2 Coal mine (cave); tea break time; the assembly line stops and everyone sit or squat on the dirt floor, in a long line, to rest. Primitives squat, sit, cave, shire, assembly line, person, soil, dirt, ground, person2 ご座います(ございます): to be (polite), to exist 座談会(ざだんかい): symposium, round-table discussion 座標(ざひょう): coordinate(s) 星座(せいざ): constellation 即座に(そくざに): immediately, right away 座敷(ざしき): tatami room 座席(ざせき): seat 座布団(ざぶとん): cushion (Japanese-- square cushion used when sitting on one´s knees on a tatami-mat floor) 座る(すわる): sit Kunyomi: すわ.る Onyomi: ザ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 座る (すわ.る)
sprain Details Story Dictionary 挫 sprain Heisig's Fingers . . . assembly line . . . soil. Koohii #1 I sprained my fingers when I sat in meditation (by sitting in a strange position). Koohii #2 I sprained in my finger doing a complicated mudra while sitting in meditation. Primitives sprain, finger, fingers, sitting in meditation, assembly line, person, soil, dirt, ground, person2 Kunyomi: くじ.く、くじ.ける Onyomi: ザ、サ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	sprain 挫 画数10 1101 Details Story Dictionary 挫 sprain Heisig's Fingers . . . assembly line . . . soil. Koohii #1 I sprained my fingers when I sat in meditation (by sitting in a strange position). Koohii #2 I sprained in my finger doing a complicated mudra while sitting in meditation. Primitives sprain, finger, fingers, sitting in meditation, assembly line, person, soil, dirt, ground, person2 Kunyomi: くじ.く、くじ.ける Onyomi: ザ、サ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
graduate Details Story Dictionary 卒 graduate My Story [Beret + 2人 + Ten/Needle] Looks like 2 dudes getting crushed Koohii #1 Ph.D graduation for assembly line of doctors(needles) with the cap and tassel(top hat). It took them 10 years (Bachelor´s, Masters, PhD) to get there.... :-p. Koohii #2 When you graduate, you wear a hat and graduate in an assembly line while your parents sit on pins and needles because it will take ten years to pay off those loans. Primitives graduate, top hat, assembly line, person, ten, needle, person2 何卒(なにとぞ): please 卒直(そっちょく): frankness, candour, openheartedness 卒業(そつぎょう): graduate Kunyomi: そっ.する、お.える、お.わる、ついに、にわか Onyomi: ソツ、シュツ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	graduate 卒 画数8 1102 Details Story Dictionary 卒 graduate My Story [Beret + 2人 + Ten/Needle] Looks like 2 dudes getting crushed Koohii #1 Ph.D graduation for assembly line of doctors(needles) with the cap and tassel(top hat). It took them 10 years (Bachelor´s, Masters, PhD) to get there.... :-p. Koohii #2 When you graduate, you wear a hat and graduate in an assembly line while your parents sit on pins and needles because it will take ten years to pay off those loans. Primitives graduate, top hat, assembly line, person, ten, needle, person2 何卒(なにとぞ): please 卒直(そっちょく): frankness, candour, openheartedness 卒業(そつぎょう): graduate Kunyomi: そっ.する、お.える、お.わる、ついに、にわか Onyomi: ソツ、シュツ Lesson: 27 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
umbrella Details Story Dictionary 傘 umbrella Heisig's Umbrella . . . two assembly lines . . . needle. Koohii #1 FOUR PERSONS can fit under this UMBRELLA if they are thin as a NEEDLE. Koohii #2 There are two assembly lines at the umbrella factory. One is responsible for making the top of the umbrella, and the other for making the handle. The two lines cross at the end, where one man tries frantically to jam the sets of parts together. Primitives umbrella, umbrella, assembly line, person, ten, needle, person4, assembly line2 傘(かさ): umbrella Kunyomi: かさ Onyomi: サン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 傘 (かさ)	umbrella 傘 画数12 1103 Details Story Dictionary 傘 umbrella Heisig's Umbrella . . . two assembly lines . . . needle. Koohii #1 FOUR PERSONS can fit under this UMBRELLA if they are thin as a NEEDLE. Koohii #2 There are two assembly lines at the umbrella factory. One is responsible for making the top of the umbrella, and the other for making the handle. The two lines cross at the end, where one man tries frantically to jam the sets of parts together. Primitives umbrella, umbrella, assembly line, person, ten, needle, person4, assembly line2 傘(かさ): umbrella Kunyomi: かさ Onyomi: サン Lesson: 27 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 傘 (かさ)
"monme Details Story Dictionary 匁 monme Heisig's This character obliges us once again to make use of a Japanese key word for want of an English equivalent. It refers to an old unit of weight, equal to about 3.75 grams. The word is only slightly more useful in modern Japanese than cubits and kites are in modern English. Its primitives, if you look closely, are: bound up . . . arm. Koohii #1 Dude! What happened to your arm! It´s all bound up! ""Yeah man, it´s a bummer... with my arm like this I can only lift one monme!"". Koohii #2 Dude! What happened to your arm! It´s all bound up! ""Yeah man, it´s a bummer... with my arm like this I can only lift one monme!"" ""You´ll never be able to use your dagger now!"" (adapted from ergerg). Primitives monme, bound up, tucked under the arm Kunyomi: もんめ、め Onyomi: Lesson: 28 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 匁 (もんめ)"	"monme 匁 画数4 1104 Details Story Dictionary 匁 monme Heisig's This character obliges us once again to make use of a Japanese key word for want of an English equivalent. It refers to an old unit of weight, equal to about 3.75 grams. The word is only slightly more useful in modern Japanese than cubits and kites are in modern English. Its primitives, if you look closely, are: bound up . . . arm. Koohii #1 Dude! What happened to your arm! It´s all bound up! ""Yeah man, it´s a bummer... with my arm like this I can only lift one monme!"". Koohii #2 Dude! What happened to your arm! It´s all bound up! ""Yeah man, it´s a bummer... with my arm like this I can only lift one monme!"" ""You´ll never be able to use your dagger now!"" (adapted from ergerg). Primitives monme, bound up, tucked under the arm Kunyomi: もんめ、め Onyomi: Lesson: 28 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 匁 (もんめ)"
"by means of Details Story Dictionary 以 by means of My Story Picture a person dragging a plow behind, and the drop of sweat which falls from his brow as he does his work. Think of him (or her, for that matter) making a living “by means of the sweat of their brows.” Koohii #1 A man earns his living by means of the plow. I imagine a sweating man dragging a bronze-age ""ard"" behind him as he plows his field himself, too poor to afford an ox. Koohii #2 Mr T now makes a living by means of a plow/hoe and the sweat he puts into it. Primitives by means of, plow, drop, person 以て(もって): with, by, by means of, because, in view of 以外(いがい): except for, other than 以後(いご): from now on, thereafter 以降(いこう): on and after, hereafter, thereafter 以前(いぜん): ago, since, before, previous 以来(いらい): since, henceforth 以下(いか): ~ or less than?not more than 以上(いじょう): more than, over 以内(いない): within Kunyomi: もっ.て Onyomi: イ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:"	"by means of 以 画数5 1105 Details Story Dictionary 以 by means of My Story Picture a person dragging a plow behind, and the drop of sweat which falls from his brow as he does his work. Think of him (or her, for that matter) making a living “by means of the sweat of their brows.” Koohii #1 A man earns his living by means of the plow. I imagine a sweating man dragging a bronze-age ""ard"" behind him as he plows his field himself, too poor to afford an ox. Koohii #2 Mr T now makes a living by means of a plow/hoe and the sweat he puts into it. Primitives by means of, plow, drop, person 以て(もって): with, by, by means of, because, in view of 以外(いがい): except for, other than 以後(いご): from now on, thereafter 以降(いこう): on and after, hereafter, thereafter 以前(いぜん): ago, since, before, previous 以来(いらい): since, henceforth 以下(いか): ~ or less than?not more than 以上(いじょう): more than, over 以内(いない): within Kunyomi: もっ.て Onyomi: イ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:"
similar Details Story Dictionary 似 similar My Story [Person + By means of{以}] A *PERSON* can become quite SIMILAR to someone else *BY MEANS OF* plastic surgery. Koohii #1 Mr. T finds that living by means of dragging a plow is similar to slavery. Koohii #2 A Mr T impersonator is becoming similarer (more like) by means of plastic surgery. The process is painful and his face is all bound up in bandages as the surgery heals. Primitives becoming, similar, person, by means of, plow, drop, person 似通う(にかよう): to resemble closely 類似(るいじ): analogous 似合う(にあう): suit, match, become, be like 真似(まね): mimicry, imitation, behavior, pretense 真似る(まねる): mimic, imitate 似る(にる): look like Kunyomi: に.る、ひ.る Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 似る (に.る)	similar 似 画数7 1106 Details Story Dictionary 似 similar My Story [Person + By means of{以}] A *PERSON* can become quite SIMILAR to someone else *BY MEANS OF* plastic surgery. Koohii #1 Mr. T finds that living by means of dragging a plow is similar to slavery. Koohii #2 A Mr T impersonator is becoming similarer (more like) by means of plastic surgery. The process is painful and his face is all bound up in bandages as the surgery heals. Primitives becoming, similar, person, by means of, plow, drop, person 似通う(にかよう): to resemble closely 類似(るいじ): analogous 似合う(にあう): suit, match, become, be like 真似(まね): mimicry, imitation, behavior, pretense 真似る(まねる): mimic, imitate 似る(にる): look like Kunyomi: に.る、ひ.る Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 似る (に.る)
join Details Story Dictionary 併 join Heisig's The sense of the key word is one of joining things together that were previously separate. Its elements: person . . . puzzle. Koohii #1 Mr. T furiously works a puzzle in an attempt to join Mensa, the high-IQ society. Koohii #2 Why do I gotta join these two puzzle pieces? I ain´t got time for joining no jigsaw-jabba! Mr. T apparently gets a severe case of crankypants when doing puzzles. Primitives join, person, puzzle, horns, two hands 合併(がっぺい): combination, union, amalgamation, consolidation, merger, coalition, fusion, annexation, affiliation, incorporation Kunyomi: あわ.せる Onyomi: ヘイ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 併せる (あわ.せる)	join 併 画数8 1107 Details Story Dictionary 併 join Heisig's The sense of the key word is one of joining things together that were previously separate. Its elements: person . . . puzzle. Koohii #1 Mr. T furiously works a puzzle in an attempt to join Mensa, the high-IQ society. Koohii #2 Why do I gotta join these two puzzle pieces? I ain´t got time for joining no jigsaw-jabba! Mr. T apparently gets a severe case of crankypants when doing puzzles. Primitives join, person, puzzle, horns, two hands 合併(がっぺい): combination, union, amalgamation, consolidation, merger, coalition, fusion, annexation, affiliation, incorporation Kunyomi: あわ.せる Onyomi: ヘイ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 併せる (あわ.せる)
tile Details Story Dictionary 瓦 tile Heisig's Ceiling . . . plow . . . fishhook . . . a drop of. Koohii #1 Horror scene: Hanging from the ceiling, a plough and fishhook dripping with blood down onto the tiled bathroom floor. Koohii #2 [true stroke order] First draw T for Tile, which then becomes I. Then draw an ´L´ fish hook with a dash in the middle to make a mediocre ´e´ that few can see.//ガ wa3 와 (wa). Primitives tile, one, ceiling, cane, stick, drop, fishhook, ice 瓦(かわら): roof tile 煉瓦(れんが): brick Kunyomi: かわら、ぐらむ Onyomi: ガ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 瓦 (かわら)	tile 瓦 画数5 1108 Details Story Dictionary 瓦 tile Heisig's Ceiling . . . plow . . . fishhook . . . a drop of. Koohii #1 Horror scene: Hanging from the ceiling, a plough and fishhook dripping with blood down onto the tiled bathroom floor. Koohii #2 [true stroke order] First draw T for Tile, which then becomes I. Then draw an ´L´ fish hook with a dash in the middle to make a mediocre ´e´ that few can see.//ガ wa3 와 (wa). Primitives tile, one, ceiling, cane, stick, drop, fishhook, ice 瓦(かわら): roof tile 煉瓦(れんが): brick Kunyomi: かわら、ぐらむ Onyomi: ガ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 瓦 (かわら)
flower pot Details Story Dictionary 瓶 flower pot Heisig's Puzzle . . . tile. Koohii #1 A flower pot that has been dropped on the floor is like a puzzle of ceramic tiles to glue together. Koohii #2 To solve this puzzle all you need is to put the flower pot on top of the proper tile. (cue secrets tune from Zelda). Primitives flower pot, puzzle, horns, two hands, tile, one, ceiling, cane, stick, drop, fishhook, ice 瓶(かめ): earthenware pot 瓶(びん): bottle, vase, vial 瓶詰(びんづめ): bottling, bottled 花瓶(かびん): (flower) vase Kunyomi: かめ Onyomi: ビン Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	flower pot 瓶 画数11 1109 Details Story Dictionary 瓶 flower pot Heisig's Puzzle . . . tile. Koohii #1 A flower pot that has been dropped on the floor is like a puzzle of ceramic tiles to glue together. Koohii #2 To solve this puzzle all you need is to put the flower pot on top of the proper tile. (cue secrets tune from Zelda). Primitives flower pot, puzzle, horns, two hands, tile, one, ceiling, cane, stick, drop, fishhook, ice 瓶(かめ): earthenware pot 瓶(びん): bottle, vase, vial 瓶詰(びんづめ): bottling, bottled 花瓶(かびん): (flower) vase Kunyomi: かめ Onyomi: ビン Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
"Shinto shrine Details Story Dictionary 宮 Shinto shrine Heisig's Way back in lesson 2 we learned the character for spine. The two other characters in which it is used we can now learn together in this and the following frame. Here a Shinto shrine is composed of house and spine. Koohii #1 This Shinto shrine is built with human spines. Have you ever seen the ossuary in Sedlec, near Kutna Hora in Czech Republic ? It is a small church entirely decorated with human bones. Do a web search for ""sedlec ossuary"", it´s quite a sight. Koohii #2 A friend of mine made up a rhyme for this one: ""house with a spine, Shinto shrine""! Primitives shinto shrine, house, spine, mouth, drop, mouth2 お宮(おみや): Shinto shrine 宮殿(きゅうでん): palace Kunyomi: みや Onyomi: キュウ、グウ、ク、クウ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 宮殿 (きゅうでん), 宮廷 (きゅうてい), 離宮 (りきゅう), 宮 (みや)"	"Shinto shrine 宮 画数10 1110 Details Story Dictionary 宮 Shinto shrine Heisig's Way back in lesson 2 we learned the character for spine. The two other characters in which it is used we can now learn together in this and the following frame. Here a Shinto shrine is composed of house and spine. Koohii #1 This Shinto shrine is built with human spines. Have you ever seen the ossuary in Sedlec, near Kutna Hora in Czech Republic ? It is a small church entirely decorated with human bones. Do a web search for ""sedlec ossuary"", it´s quite a sight. Koohii #2 A friend of mine made up a rhyme for this one: ""house with a spine, Shinto shrine""! Primitives shinto shrine, house, spine, mouth, drop, mouth2 お宮(おみや): Shinto shrine 宮殿(きゅうでん): palace Kunyomi: みや Onyomi: キュウ、グウ、ク、クウ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 宮殿 (きゅうでん), 宮廷 (きゅうてい), 離宮 (りきゅう), 宮 (みや)"
"occupation Details Story Dictionary 営 occupation Heisig's Schoolhouse . . . spine. Koohii #1 The schoolhouse is the backbone of a foundation that will allow you to find a good occupation. Koohii #2 During the German occupation, this Nazi officer´s occupation was to manage schools that were requisitioned for training the children of the Aryan race to stand proud with an erect spine (mnemonic : ""the occupation´s spine schools""). Kanji meanings : to manage, to conduct (business), and also ""barracks; camp; encapment"". This story should help avoid confusion with post (#824) and employ (#1083). The military occupation theme hints to the secondary meaning, e.g. 営倉 ""detention barracks"". Primitives occupation, schoolhouse, owl, crown, spine, mouth, drop, mouth2 営む(いとなむ): to carry on (e.g. in ceremony), to run a business 運営(うんえい): management, administration, operation 営業(えいぎょう): business, trade, sales, operations 経営(けいえい): management, administration Kunyomi: いとな.む、いとな.み Onyomi: エイ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 営む (いとな.む)"	"occupation 営 画数12 1111 Details Story Dictionary 営 occupation Heisig's Schoolhouse . . . spine. Koohii #1 The schoolhouse is the backbone of a foundation that will allow you to find a good occupation. Koohii #2 During the German occupation, this Nazi officer´s occupation was to manage schools that were requisitioned for training the children of the Aryan race to stand proud with an erect spine (mnemonic : ""the occupation´s spine schools""). Kanji meanings : to manage, to conduct (business), and also ""barracks; camp; encapment"". This story should help avoid confusion with post (#824) and employ (#1083). The military occupation theme hints to the secondary meaning, e.g. 営倉 ""detention barracks"". Primitives occupation, schoolhouse, owl, crown, spine, mouth, drop, mouth2 営む(いとなむ): to carry on (e.g. in ceremony), to run a business 運営(うんえい): management, administration, operation 営業(えいぎょう): business, trade, sales, operations 経営(けいえい): management, administration Kunyomi: いとな.む、いとな.み Onyomi: エイ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 営む (いとな.む)"
"virtuous Details Story Dictionary 善 virtuous Heisig's Sheep . . . horns . . . mouth. Pay special attention to the writing of this character. Koohii #1 Imagine a priest´s teaching: ""To achieve virtue one must first submit himself as a sheep to God´s flock, rejecting the horns of Satan and resisting the mouth of Hell. Koohii #2 To be virtuous, a good rule to follow is to put your sheepishness (discretion) over your horns (anger) before using your mouth. In other words, ""discretion is the better part of virtue"". Primitives virtuous, sheep, horns, mouth 最善(さいぜん): the very best 親善(しんぜん): friendship 善良(ぜんりょう): goodness, excellence, virtue 善し悪し(よしあし): good or bad, merits or demerits, quality, suitability 改善(かいぜん): betterment, improvement, incremental and continuous improvement 善(ぜん): good, goodness, right, virtue Kunyomi: よ.い、い.い、よ.く、よし.とする Onyomi: ゼン Lesson: 28 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 善い (よ.い)"	"virtuous 善 画数12 1112 Details Story Dictionary 善 virtuous Heisig's Sheep . . . horns . . . mouth. Pay special attention to the writing of this character. Koohii #1 Imagine a priest´s teaching: ""To achieve virtue one must first submit himself as a sheep to God´s flock, rejecting the horns of Satan and resisting the mouth of Hell. Koohii #2 To be virtuous, a good rule to follow is to put your sheepishness (discretion) over your horns (anger) before using your mouth. In other words, ""discretion is the better part of virtue"". Primitives virtuous, sheep, horns, mouth 最善(さいぜん): the very best 親善(しんぜん): friendship 善良(ぜんりょう): goodness, excellence, virtue 善し悪し(よしあし): good or bad, merits or demerits, quality, suitability 改善(かいぜん): betterment, improvement, incremental and continuous improvement 善(ぜん): good, goodness, right, virtue Kunyomi: よ.い、い.い、よ.く、よし.とする Onyomi: ゼン Lesson: 28 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 善い (よ.い)"
dining tray Details Story Dictionary 膳 dining tray Heisig's Flesh . . . virtuous. Koohii #1 Some people insist that the serving maids who bring in the dining trays are especially virtuous and never let any man touch their flesh. Koohii #2 The virtuous vegan will not touch this dining tray because it has had a piece of meat on it. Primitives dining tray, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, virtuous, sheep, horns, mouth 膳(ぜん): (small) table, tray, meal Kunyomi: かしわ、すす.める、そな.える Onyomi: ゼン、セン Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	dining tray 膳 画数16 1113 Details Story Dictionary 膳 dining tray Heisig's Flesh . . . virtuous. Koohii #1 Some people insist that the serving maids who bring in the dining trays are especially virtuous and never let any man touch their flesh. Koohii #2 The virtuous vegan will not touch this dining tray because it has had a piece of meat on it. Primitives dining tray, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, virtuous, sheep, horns, mouth 膳(ぜん): (small) table, tray, meal Kunyomi: かしわ、すす.める、そな.える Onyomi: ゼン、セン Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
year Details Story Dictionary 年 year Heisig's In an odd fashion, the kanji for year joins together the element for horse, on the top, and the right half of the element for sunglasses. Think of it as a horse wearing sunglasses with one of the lenses popped out. We will use this latter image again, so learn it now and save yourself the trouble later. Koohii #1 A horse wears a pair of sunglasses with one lens popped out after a particularly raucous celebration to ring in the New Year. Koohii #2 A horse wears a monocle for New Years to appear dignified for the year of the horse. ――one lens = monocle, you will encounter this again in kanji like descend (#1308). Primitives year, sign of the horse, sunglasses 一昨年(おととし): year before last 同い年(おないどし): of the same age 元年(がんねん): first year (of a specific reign) 成年(せいねん): majority, adult age 定年(ていねん): retirement age 年頃(としごろ): age, marriageable age, age of puberty, adolescence, for some years 年寄り(としより): old people, the aged 年鑑(ねんかん): yearbook 年号(ねんごう): name of an era, year number 年生(ねんせい): pupil in .... year, student in .... year 年長(ねんちょう): seniority 年輪(ねんりん): annual tree ring 一昨年(いっさくねん): year before last 学年(がくねん): year in school, grade in school 少年(しょうねん): boys, juveniles 青少年(せいしょうねん): youth, young person 青年(せいねん): youth, young man 生年月日(せいねんがっぴ): birth date 中年(ちゅうねん): middle-aged 年月(としつき): months and years 年間(ねんかん): year (interval of time) 年月(ねんげつ): months and years 年中(ねんじゅう): whole year, always, everyday 年代(ねんだい): age, era, period, date 年度(ねんど): year, fiscal year, school year, term 年齢(ねんれい): age, years 年(とし): year 去年(きょねん): last year 今年(ことし): this year 再来年(さらいねん): year after next 万年筆(まんねんひつ): fountain pen 来年(らいねん): next year Kunyomi: とし Onyomi: ネン Lesson: 28 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 年 (とし)	year 年 画数6 1114 Details Story Dictionary 年 year Heisig's In an odd fashion, the kanji for year joins together the element for horse, on the top, and the right half of the element for sunglasses. Think of it as a horse wearing sunglasses with one of the lenses popped out. We will use this latter image again, so learn it now and save yourself the trouble later. Koohii #1 A horse wears a pair of sunglasses with one lens popped out after a particularly raucous celebration to ring in the New Year. Koohii #2 A horse wears a monocle for New Years to appear dignified for the year of the horse. ――one lens = monocle, you will encounter this again in kanji like descend (#1308). Primitives year, sign of the horse, sunglasses 一昨年(おととし): year before last 同い年(おないどし): of the same age 元年(がんねん): first year (of a specific reign) 成年(せいねん): majority, adult age 定年(ていねん): retirement age 年頃(としごろ): age, marriageable age, age of puberty, adolescence, for some years 年寄り(としより): old people, the aged 年鑑(ねんかん): yearbook 年号(ねんごう): name of an era, year number 年生(ねんせい): pupil in .... year, student in .... year 年長(ねんちょう): seniority 年輪(ねんりん): annual tree ring 一昨年(いっさくねん): year before last 学年(がくねん): year in school, grade in school 少年(しょうねん): boys, juveniles 青少年(せいしょうねん): youth, young person 青年(せいねん): youth, young man 生年月日(せいねんがっぴ): birth date 中年(ちゅうねん): middle-aged 年月(としつき): months and years 年間(ねんかん): year (interval of time) 年月(ねんげつ): months and years 年中(ねんじゅう): whole year, always, everyday 年代(ねんだい): age, era, period, date 年度(ねんど): year, fiscal year, school year, term 年齢(ねんれい): age, years 年(とし): year 去年(きょねん): last year 今年(ことし): this year 再来年(さらいねん): year after next 万年筆(まんねんひつ): fountain pen 来年(らいねん): next year Kunyomi: とし Onyomi: ネン Lesson: 28 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 年 (とし)
"night Details Story Dictionary 夜 night Heisig's First of all, be sure not to confuse the connotations of night with those of evening (Frame 114) and nightbreak (Frame 30). Its elements: top hat . . . person . . . walking legs . . . drop. Koohii #1 Actually, the lower-right primitive isn´t quite ""walking legs."" It´s a little more like ""evening"" with an extra stroke across it (look up the stroke order). So, it helps me to see this kanji for night as: evening plus an extra stroke representing the tuxedo tails to match the top hat which my special person is wearing out on the town... Koohii #2 Here we have Mister T sleepwalking, wearing a top hat as if he was the ambassador of the night, walking, and walking and walking on his tired walking legs, until he drops (back into his bed). Primitives night, top hat, person, walking legs, drop 日夜(にちや): day and night, always 夜行(やぎょう): walking around at night, night train, night travel 夜具(やぐ): bedding 夜中(やちゅう): all night, the whole night 夜更かし(よふかし): staying up late, keeping late hours, sitting up late at night, nighthawk 夜更け(よふけ): late at night 深夜(しんや): late at night 徹夜(てつや): all night, all-night vigil, sleepless night 夜間(やかん): at night, nighttime 夜行(やこう): walking around at night, night train, night travel 夜(よ): night 夜明け(よあけ): dawn, daybreak 夜中(よなか): all night, the whole night 今夜(こんや): tonight 夜(よる): evening, night Kunyomi: よ、よる Onyomi: ヤ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 夜 (よ), 夜 (よる)"	"night 夜 画数8 1115 Details Story Dictionary 夜 night Heisig's First of all, be sure not to confuse the connotations of night with those of evening (Frame 114) and nightbreak (Frame 30). Its elements: top hat . . . person . . . walking legs . . . drop. Koohii #1 Actually, the lower-right primitive isn´t quite ""walking legs."" It´s a little more like ""evening"" with an extra stroke across it (look up the stroke order). So, it helps me to see this kanji for night as: evening plus an extra stroke representing the tuxedo tails to match the top hat which my special person is wearing out on the town... Koohii #2 Here we have Mister T sleepwalking, wearing a top hat as if he was the ambassador of the night, walking, and walking and walking on his tired walking legs, until he drops (back into his bed). Primitives night, top hat, person, walking legs, drop 日夜(にちや): day and night, always 夜行(やぎょう): walking around at night, night train, night travel 夜具(やぐ): bedding 夜中(やちゅう): all night, the whole night 夜更かし(よふかし): staying up late, keeping late hours, sitting up late at night, nighthawk 夜更け(よふけ): late at night 深夜(しんや): late at night 徹夜(てつや): all night, all-night vigil, sleepless night 夜間(やかん): at night, nighttime 夜行(やこう): walking around at night, night train, night travel 夜(よ): night 夜明け(よあけ): dawn, daybreak 夜中(よなか): all night, the whole night 今夜(こんや): tonight 夜(よる): evening, night Kunyomi: よ、よる Onyomi: ヤ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 夜 (よ), 夜 (よる)"
fluid Details Story Dictionary 液 fluid Heisig's Water . . . night. Koohii #1 A wet dream........water fluid that comes out at night.... Koohii #2 I imagined some kind of liquid (water) that was discovered on another planet. It solidifes during the day, and becomes fluid only at night, in the absence of light. The question is, could any lifeforms thrive in there ? Primitives fluid, water, water droplets, water pistol, night, top hat, person, walking legs, drop 液(えき): liquid, fluid 溶液(ようえき): solution (liquid) 液体(えきたい): liquid, fluid 血液(けつえき): blood Kunyomi: Onyomi: エキ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	fluid 液 画数11 1116 Details Story Dictionary 液 fluid Heisig's Water . . . night. Koohii #1 A wet dream........water fluid that comes out at night.... Koohii #2 I imagined some kind of liquid (water) that was discovered on another planet. It solidifes during the day, and becomes fluid only at night, in the absence of light. The question is, could any lifeforms thrive in there ? Primitives fluid, water, water droplets, water pistol, night, top hat, person, walking legs, drop 液(えき): liquid, fluid 溶液(ようえき): solution (liquid) 液体(えきたい): liquid, fluid 血液(けつえき): blood Kunyomi: Onyomi: エキ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
hillock Details Story Dictionary 塚 hillock Heisig's Soil . . . crown . . . sow. Compare frame 582. Koohii #1 There´s already King of the Hill. This is Queen of the Hillock. It´s Ms. Piggy sitting on top of a mound of soil in her crown. Koohii #2 The crowned sow (we met her in overpowering) is standing atop her little mound of earth - hillock - the undisputed champeen of all the pigsty. Primitives hillock, soil, dirt, ground, crown, pig, sow Kunyomi: つか、-づか Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 塚 (つか)	hillock 塚 画数12 1117 Details Story Dictionary 塚 hillock Heisig's Soil . . . crown . . . sow. Compare frame 582. Koohii #1 There´s already King of the Hill. This is Queen of the Hillock. It´s Ms. Piggy sitting on top of a mound of soil in her crown. Koohii #2 The crowned sow (we met her in overpowering) is standing atop her little mound of earth - hillock - the undisputed champeen of all the pigsty. Primitives hillock, soil, dirt, ground, crown, pig, sow Kunyomi: つか、-づか Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 塚 (つか)
"cash Details Story Dictionary 幣 cash Heisig's Shredder . . . towel. Koohii #1 A counterfeiter is using a shredder to shred a towel in order to print up some cash (he needs some rag paper) . Koohii #2 In order to create some cash, first you feed a towel through a shredder to get the raw materials. (""Paper"" money isn´t plain paper; it´s mostly linen.). Primitives cash, shredder, small, little, belt, taskmaster, towel 貨幣(かへい): money, currency, coinage 紙幣(しへい): paper money, notes, bills Kunyomi: ぬさ Onyomi: ヘイ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"cash 幣 画数15 1118 Details Story Dictionary 幣 cash Heisig's Shredder . . . towel. Koohii #1 A counterfeiter is using a shredder to shred a towel in order to print up some cash (he needs some rag paper) . Koohii #2 In order to create some cash, first you feed a towel through a shredder to get the raw materials. (""Paper"" money isn´t plain paper; it´s mostly linen.). Primitives cash, shredder, small, little, belt, taskmaster, towel 貨幣(かへい): money, currency, coinage 紙幣(しへい): paper money, notes, bills Kunyomi: ぬさ Onyomi: ヘイ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
cover over Details Story Dictionary 蔽 cover over Heisig's Flower . . . shredder. Koohii #1 You cover over the shredder with flowers when the FBI comes a-knockin´. Koohii #2 The taskmaster arranges flowers to cover over the rags she makes us clean with. Primitives cover over, flowers, shredder, small, little, belt, taskmaster Kunyomi: おお.う、おお.い Onyomi: ヘイ、ヘツ、フツ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	cover over 蔽 画数15 1119 Details Story Dictionary 蔽 cover over Heisig's Flower . . . shredder. Koohii #1 You cover over the shredder with flowers when the FBI comes a-knockin´. Koohii #2 The taskmaster arranges flowers to cover over the rags she makes us clean with. Primitives cover over, flowers, shredder, small, little, belt, taskmaster Kunyomi: おお.う、おお.い Onyomi: ヘイ、ヘツ、フツ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
abuse Details Story Dictionary 弊 abuse Heisig's Shredder . . . two hands. Koohii #1 The Bush administration taskmasters hid their abuse of power by shredding documents as fast as they could using both hands....　　　　　RTK2: 　ヘイ　弊害　へいがい(abuse)...　　　Pure Group:　幣1041. Koohii #2 You’ve heard of Edward Scissor hands? Well this is Medward Shredder Hands. Instead of nicely trimming your shrubs, he uses his TWO SHREDDER equipped HANDS to ABUSE your plants by shredding them into wood chips. Primitives abuse, shredder, small, little, belt, taskmaster, two hands Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヘイ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	abuse 弊 画数15 1120 Details Story Dictionary 弊 abuse Heisig's Shredder . . . two hands. Koohii #1 The Bush administration taskmasters hid their abuse of power by shredding documents as fast as they could using both hands....　　　　　RTK2: 　ヘイ　弊害　へいがい(abuse)...　　　Pure Group:　幣1041. Koohii #2 You’ve heard of Edward Scissor hands? Well this is Medward Shredder Hands. Instead of nicely trimming your shrubs, he uses his TWO SHREDDER equipped HANDS to ABUSE your plants by shredding them into wood chips. Primitives abuse, shredder, small, little, belt, taskmaster, two hands Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヘイ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
yell Details Story Dictionary 喚 yell Heisig's The mouth on the left is obvious. The rest is harder. Try this: four St. Bernard dogs bound up in a bunch. Together they should supply a clear enough portrait of a yell, provided you are careful to see all four of them. Note how the final stroke of the four is supplied by the long horizontal stroke of the St .Bernard. Koohii #1 Think yelp when you hear yell to help dinstinguish this from shout (1508). I think of the sounds that would come from the mouths of the 4 dogs if they were bound up together. I´m imagining lots of yelping. Koohii #2 Yell? You mean, Old Yeller. Here, we see four St Bernard dogs all yelling for a chance to play a part in Old Yeller. They´re so loud that you have to bound them, and their mouths, up. Primitives yell, mouth, bound up, four, large, St. Bernard Kunyomi: わめ.く Onyomi: カン Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	yell 喚 画数12 1121 Details Story Dictionary 喚 yell Heisig's The mouth on the left is obvious. The rest is harder. Try this: four St. Bernard dogs bound up in a bunch. Together they should supply a clear enough portrait of a yell, provided you are careful to see all four of them. Note how the final stroke of the four is supplied by the long horizontal stroke of the St .Bernard. Koohii #1 Think yelp when you hear yell to help dinstinguish this from shout (1508). I think of the sounds that would come from the mouths of the 4 dogs if they were bound up together. I´m imagining lots of yelping. Koohii #2 Yell? You mean, Old Yeller. Here, we see four St Bernard dogs all yelling for a chance to play a part in Old Yeller. They´re so loud that you have to bound them, and their mouths, up. Primitives yell, mouth, bound up, four, large, St. Bernard Kunyomi: わめ.く Onyomi: カン Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
interchange Details Story Dictionary 換 interchange My Story My Nigga *Mo* CAN exchange (interchange) his hand for *four* *big* *fish hooks* (FYI I am some kind of rejected Bond villain) Koohii #1 After months of practice, you finally managed to teach a nice trick to your sled-pulling four bound up St. Bernard dogs: one snap of your fingers and they interchange their positions. Koohii #2 On the snap of your fingers, the four St. Bernard dogs bound up interchange places. Primitives interchange, finger, fingers, bound up, four, large, St. Bernard 換える(かえる): to exchange, to interchange, to substitute, to replace 換算(かんさん): conversion, change, exchange 転換(てんかん): convert, divert 乗り換え(のりかえ): transfer (trains buses etc.) 換気(かんき): ventilation 交換(こうかん): exchange, interchange, reciprocity, barter, substitution 乗換(のりかえ): transfer (trains, buses, etc.) 乗り換える(のりかえる): transfer Kunyomi: か.える、-か.える、か.わる Onyomi: カン Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 換える (か.える), 換わる (か.わる)	interchange 換 画数12 1122 Details Story Dictionary 換 interchange My Story My Nigga *Mo* CAN exchange (interchange) his hand for *four* *big* *fish hooks* (FYI I am some kind of rejected Bond villain) Koohii #1 After months of practice, you finally managed to teach a nice trick to your sled-pulling four bound up St. Bernard dogs: one snap of your fingers and they interchange their positions. Koohii #2 On the snap of your fingers, the four St. Bernard dogs bound up interchange places. Primitives interchange, finger, fingers, bound up, four, large, St. Bernard 換える(かえる): to exchange, to interchange, to substitute, to replace 換算(かんさん): conversion, change, exchange 転換(てんかん): convert, divert 乗り換え(のりかえ): transfer (trains buses etc.) 換気(かんき): ventilation 交換(こうかん): exchange, interchange, reciprocity, barter, substitution 乗換(のりかえ): transfer (trains, buses, etc.) 乗り換える(のりかえる): transfer Kunyomi: か.える、-か.える、か.わる Onyomi: カン Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 換える (か.える), 換わる (か.わる)
"dissolve Details Story Dictionary 融 dissolve Heisig's Ceiling . . . mouth . . . hood . . . human legs . . . spike . . . insect. This is the maximum number of elements to appear in any story in the book. Koohii #1 I have created the element ""old camera"" out of the left side of the kanji: from the subject´s point of view, the light is captured by one mouth (the lens). The photographer is under a big hood, we only see his legs, and he is holding a spike in his right hand, which is the shutter release. Now, at the time the photographer takes the photo, a little insect is flying near the flash. The flash is so powerful that the insect is burnt and dissolves in the air. Koohii #2 I´ve seen this crazy thing with only one mouth that can dissolve up to 4 nails and an insect at the same time. Sweet! (It´s a venus flytrap, btw). Primitives dissolve, tripod, one, ceiling, mouth, hood, human legs, street, nail, spike, insect 融資(ゆうし): financing, loan 融通(ゆうずう): lending (money), accommodation, adaptability, versatility, finance 金融(きんゆう): monetary circulation, credit situation Kunyomi: と.ける、と.かす Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"dissolve 融 画数16 1123 Details Story Dictionary 融 dissolve Heisig's Ceiling . . . mouth . . . hood . . . human legs . . . spike . . . insect. This is the maximum number of elements to appear in any story in the book. Koohii #1 I have created the element ""old camera"" out of the left side of the kanji: from the subject´s point of view, the light is captured by one mouth (the lens). The photographer is under a big hood, we only see his legs, and he is holding a spike in his right hand, which is the shutter release. Now, at the time the photographer takes the photo, a little insect is flying near the flash. The flash is so powerful that the insect is burnt and dissolves in the air. Koohii #2 I´ve seen this crazy thing with only one mouth that can dissolve up to 4 nails and an insect at the same time. Sweet! (It´s a venus flytrap, btw). Primitives dissolve, tripod, one, ceiling, mouth, hood, human legs, street, nail, spike, insect 融資(ゆうし): financing, loan 融通(ゆうずう): lending (money), accommodation, adaptability, versatility, finance 金融(きんゆう): monetary circulation, credit situation Kunyomi: と.ける、と.かす Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 28 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
alms Details Story Dictionary 施 alms Heisig's Banner . . . scorpion. Koohii #1 Under their banner, volunteers are requesting alms for scorpion sting victims. Koohii #2 ALMS for the poor cries the beggar under his tattered BANNER. An evil bastard instead drops a SCORPION into his begging bowl. Primitives alms, banner, direction, compass, direction, reclining, lying down, scorpion 施行(しぎょう): execution, enforcing, carrying out 施設(しせつ): institution, establishment, facility, (army) engineer 施す(ほどこす): to donate, to give, to conduct, to apply, to perform 実施(じっし): enforcement, enact, put into practice, carry out, operation Kunyomi: ほどこ.す Onyomi: シ、セ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 施設 (しせつ), 施政 (しせい), 実施 (じっし), 施す (ほどこ.す)	alms 施 画数9 1124 Details Story Dictionary 施 alms Heisig's Banner . . . scorpion. Koohii #1 Under their banner, volunteers are requesting alms for scorpion sting victims. Koohii #2 ALMS for the poor cries the beggar under his tattered BANNER. An evil bastard instead drops a SCORPION into his begging bowl. Primitives alms, banner, direction, compass, direction, reclining, lying down, scorpion 施行(しぎょう): execution, enforcing, carrying out 施設(しせつ): institution, establishment, facility, (army) engineer 施す(ほどこす): to donate, to give, to conduct, to apply, to perform 実施(じっし): enforcement, enact, put into practice, carry out, operation Kunyomi: ほどこ.す Onyomi: シ、セ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 施設 (しせつ), 施政 (しせい), 実施 (じっし), 施す (ほどこ.す)
rotation Details Story Dictionary 旋 rotation Heisig's A banner . . . a zoo. Hint: think of a merry-go-round. Koohii #1 A merry-go-round with a big banner on top and below a veritable zoo of bakelite animals on poles in perpertual rotation accompanied by silly music. Giraffes, elephants, zebras, rhinos... Koohii #2 Don´t confuse with revolve or axis! Think of rotation as a rotation of animals in the zoo - some are on display (in rotation), some are in cages in the back (out of rotation). The ones currently in rotation (on display) are advertised with a large banner. Primitives rotation, banner, direction, compass, direction, reclining, lying down, zoo, critters Kunyomi: Onyomi: セン Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	rotation 旋 画数11 1125 Details Story Dictionary 旋 rotation Heisig's A banner . . . a zoo. Hint: think of a merry-go-round. Koohii #1 A merry-go-round with a big banner on top and below a veritable zoo of bakelite animals on poles in perpertual rotation accompanied by silly music. Giraffes, elephants, zebras, rhinos... Koohii #2 Don´t confuse with revolve or axis! Think of rotation as a rotation of animals in the zoo - some are on display (in rotation), some are in cages in the back (out of rotation). The ones currently in rotation (on display) are advertised with a large banner. Primitives rotation, banner, direction, compass, direction, reclining, lying down, zoo, critters Kunyomi: Onyomi: セン Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"play Details Story Dictionary 遊 play Heisig's Banners . . . children . . . road. Koohii #1 The BANNER warns that CHILDREN PLAY on the ROAD. Koohii #2 There is always a stupid banner talking about children at play near the road. They mean ""drive slowly"", but it sounds like its slow(stupid) children that are at play. Primitives play, banner, direction, compass, direction, reclining, lying down, child, road 遊牧(ゆうぼく): nomadism 遊園地(ゆうえんち): amusement park 遊び(あそび): play 遊ぶ(あそぶ): play, make a visit (esp. for pleasure), be idle, do nothing Kunyomi: あそ.ぶ、あそ.ばす Onyomi: ユウ、ユ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 遊戯 (ゆうぎ), 遊離 (ゆうり), 交遊 (こうゆう), 遊ぶ (あそ.ぶ)"	"play 遊 画数12 1126 Details Story Dictionary 遊 play Heisig's Banners . . . children . . . road. Koohii #1 The BANNER warns that CHILDREN PLAY on the ROAD. Koohii #2 There is always a stupid banner talking about children at play near the road. They mean ""drive slowly"", but it sounds like its slow(stupid) children that are at play. Primitives play, banner, direction, compass, direction, reclining, lying down, child, road 遊牧(ゆうぼく): nomadism 遊園地(ゆうえんち): amusement park 遊び(あそび): play 遊ぶ(あそぶ): play, make a visit (esp. for pleasure), be idle, do nothing Kunyomi: あそ.ぶ、あそ.ばす Onyomi: ユウ、ユ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 遊戯 (ゆうぎ), 遊離 (ゆうり), 交遊 (こうゆう), 遊ぶ (あそ.ぶ)"
"trip Details Story Dictionary 旅 trip My Story When we go on a trip in that *direction*, we bring *a rifle* to shoot *hitchhikers*. Koohii #1 The boat starts to leave on it´s trip across the Atlantic. Underneath a huge banner that spans the width of the ship and says ""Bon Voyage"", the people wave their rags signalling a safe journey for all on board the Titanic. Koohii #2 After a long long trip, what once was a proud beautiful banner, we had nothing more than a simple rag remaining. Primitives trip, banner, direction, compass, direction, reclining, lying down, Carol in rags, person, rag 旅客(りょかく): passenger (transport) 旅券(りょけん): passport 旅(たび): travel, trip, journey 旅館(りょかん): Japanese inn 旅行(りょこう): travel, trip Kunyomi: たび Onyomi: リョ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 旅 (たび)"	"trip 旅 画数10 1127 Details Story Dictionary 旅 trip My Story When we go on a trip in that *direction*, we bring *a rifle* to shoot *hitchhikers*. Koohii #1 The boat starts to leave on it´s trip across the Atlantic. Underneath a huge banner that spans the width of the ship and says ""Bon Voyage"", the people wave their rags signalling a safe journey for all on board the Titanic. Koohii #2 After a long long trip, what once was a proud beautiful banner, we had nothing more than a simple rag remaining. Primitives trip, banner, direction, compass, direction, reclining, lying down, Carol in rags, person, rag 旅客(りょかく): passenger (transport) 旅券(りょけん): passport 旅(たび): travel, trip, journey 旅館(りょかん): Japanese inn 旅行(りょこう): travel, trip Kunyomi: たび Onyomi: リョ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 旅 (たび)"
"not Details Story Dictionary 勿 not Heisig's First take the primitive meaning of this character: knot. Think of it as the piglet minus its body (the horizontal stroke), that is, the curly tail that looks like a knot. As an exception, we will use the homonym to remember the abstract key word, not. Koohii #1 This kanji is NOT a piglett. Koohii #2 The butcher is standing over the piglet. ""This is a piglet...(cuts of head)...NOT!"". Primitives not, knot, piglet’s tail 勿論(もちろん): of course, certainly, naturally Kunyomi: なか.れ、なし Onyomi: モチ、ブツ、ボツ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"not 勿 画数4 1128 Details Story Dictionary 勿 not Heisig's First take the primitive meaning of this character: knot. Think of it as the piglet minus its body (the horizontal stroke), that is, the curly tail that looks like a knot. As an exception, we will use the homonym to remember the abstract key word, not. Koohii #1 This kanji is NOT a piglett. Koohii #2 The butcher is standing over the piglet. ""This is a piglet...(cuts of head)...NOT!"". Primitives not, knot, piglet’s tail 勿論(もちろん): of course, certainly, naturally Kunyomi: なか.れ、なし Onyomi: モチ、ブツ、ボツ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:"
"thing Details Story Dictionary 物 thing Heisig's Cow . . . knot. Koohii #1 The cow´s ""thing"" is tied in a knot! ouch. Koohii #2 A cow is not a thing. Its an animal. If you study japanese you know that living beings and things are discerned from each other with the verbs iru and aru. Primitives thing, cow, knot, piglet’s tail 獲物(えもの): game, spoils, trophy 織物(おりもの): textile, fabric 贋物(がんぶつ): imitation, counterfeit, forgery, sham 禁物(きんもつ): taboo, forbidden thing 作物(さくぶつ): literary work 産物(さんぶつ): product, result, fruit 私物(しぶつ): private property, personal effects 出来物(できもの): able man, tumour, growth, boil, ulcer, abcess, rash, pimple 物議(ぶつぎ): public discussion (criticism) 物資(ぶっし): goods, materials 物体(ぶったい): body, object 干し物(ほしもの): dried washing (clothes) 見せ物(みせもの): show, exhibition 物置き(ものおき): storeroom 物好き(ものずき): curiosity 物足りない(ものたりない): unsatisfied, unsatisfactory 編物(あみもの): knitting, web 生き物(いきもの): animal 入れ物(いれもの): container, case, receptacle 落し物(おとしもの): lost property 貨物(かもつ): cargo, freight, money or assets 鉱物(こうぶつ): mineral 穀物(こくもつ): grain, cereal, corn 作物(さくもつ): literary work 実物(じつぶつ): real thing, original 植物(しょくぶつ): plant, vegetation 食物(しょくもつ): food, foodstuff 書物(しょもつ): books 人物(じんぶつ): character, personality, person, man, personage, talented man 生物(せいぶつ): living things, creature 瀬戸物(せともの): earthenware, crockery, china 農産物(のうさんぶつ): agricultural produce 博物館(はくぶつかん): museum 物価(ぶっか): prices of commodities, prices (in general), cost-of-living 物質(ぶっしつ): material, substance 物騒(ぶっそう): dangerous, disturbed, insecure 物理(ぶつり): physics 本物(ほんもの): genuine article 名物(めいぶつ): famous product, speciality 物置(ものおき): storage room 物音(ものおと): sounds 物語(ものがたり): tale, story, legend 物語る(ものがたる): tell, indicate 物事(ものごと): things, everything 物差し(ものさし): ruler, measure 物凄い(ものすごい): earth-shattering, staggering, to a very great extent 贈り物(おくりもの): gift 着物(きもの): Japanese traditional dress 見物(けんぶつ): sightseeing, see, look at 品物(しなもの): article, goods 動物園(どうぶつえん): zoo 乗り物(のりもの): vehicle, vessel 忘れ物(わすれもの): a thing left behind 買い物(かいもの): shopping 果物(くだもの): fruit 建物(たてもの): building 食べ物(たべもの): food 動物(どうぶつ): animal 荷物(にもつ): baggage, luggage 飲み物(のみもの): drink, beverage 物(もの): thing, object Kunyomi: もの、もの- Onyomi: ブツ、モツ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 物質 (ぶっしつ), 人物 (じんぶつ), 動物 (どうぶつ), 物 (もの)"	"thing 物 画数8 1129 Details Story Dictionary 物 thing Heisig's Cow . . . knot. Koohii #1 The cow´s ""thing"" is tied in a knot! ouch. Koohii #2 A cow is not a thing. Its an animal. If you study japanese you know that living beings and things are discerned from each other with the verbs iru and aru. Primitives thing, cow, knot, piglet’s tail 獲物(えもの): game, spoils, trophy 織物(おりもの): textile, fabric 贋物(がんぶつ): imitation, counterfeit, forgery, sham 禁物(きんもつ): taboo, forbidden thing 作物(さくぶつ): literary work 産物(さんぶつ): product, result, fruit 私物(しぶつ): private property, personal effects 出来物(できもの): able man, tumour, growth, boil, ulcer, abcess, rash, pimple 物議(ぶつぎ): public discussion (criticism) 物資(ぶっし): goods, materials 物体(ぶったい): body, object 干し物(ほしもの): dried washing (clothes) 見せ物(みせもの): show, exhibition 物置き(ものおき): storeroom 物好き(ものずき): curiosity 物足りない(ものたりない): unsatisfied, unsatisfactory 編物(あみもの): knitting, web 生き物(いきもの): animal 入れ物(いれもの): container, case, receptacle 落し物(おとしもの): lost property 貨物(かもつ): cargo, freight, money or assets 鉱物(こうぶつ): mineral 穀物(こくもつ): grain, cereal, corn 作物(さくもつ): literary work 実物(じつぶつ): real thing, original 植物(しょくぶつ): plant, vegetation 食物(しょくもつ): food, foodstuff 書物(しょもつ): books 人物(じんぶつ): character, personality, person, man, personage, talented man 生物(せいぶつ): living things, creature 瀬戸物(せともの): earthenware, crockery, china 農産物(のうさんぶつ): agricultural produce 博物館(はくぶつかん): museum 物価(ぶっか): prices of commodities, prices (in general), cost-of-living 物質(ぶっしつ): material, substance 物騒(ぶっそう): dangerous, disturbed, insecure 物理(ぶつり): physics 本物(ほんもの): genuine article 名物(めいぶつ): famous product, speciality 物置(ものおき): storage room 物音(ものおと): sounds 物語(ものがたり): tale, story, legend 物語る(ものがたる): tell, indicate 物事(ものごと): things, everything 物差し(ものさし): ruler, measure 物凄い(ものすごい): earth-shattering, staggering, to a very great extent 贈り物(おくりもの): gift 着物(きもの): Japanese traditional dress 見物(けんぶつ): sightseeing, see, look at 品物(しなもの): article, goods 動物園(どうぶつえん): zoo 乗り物(のりもの): vehicle, vessel 忘れ物(わすれもの): a thing left behind 買い物(かいもの): shopping 果物(くだもの): fruit 建物(たてもの): building 食べ物(たべもの): food 動物(どうぶつ): animal 荷物(にもつ): baggage, luggage 飲み物(のみもの): drink, beverage 物(もの): thing, object Kunyomi: もの、もの- Onyomi: ブツ、モツ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 物質 (ぶっしつ), 人物 (じんぶつ), 動物 (どうぶつ), 物 (もの)"
easy Details Story Dictionary 易 easy My Story The *sun* is an easy *thing* to see. Koohii #1 The sun is not an easy place to get to. Koohii #2 Under the sun, it is easy to untie a knot. Under a pitch-dark sky, it is knot so easy. Primitives easy, sun, day, knot, piglet’s tail 簡易(かんい): simplicity, easiness, quasi- 交易(こうえき): trade, commerce 容易い(たやすい): easy, simple, light 辟易(へきえき): wince, shrink back, succumbing to, being frightened, disconcerted 易い(やすい): easy 安易(あんい): easygoing 容易(ようい): easy, simple, plain 貿易(ぼうえき): trade 易しい(やさしい): easy, plain, simple Kunyomi: やさ.しい、やす.い Onyomi: エキ、イ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 易者 (えきしゃ), 貿易 (ぼうえき), 不易 (ふえき), 易しい (やさ.しい)	easy 易 画数8 1130 Details Story Dictionary 易 easy My Story The *sun* is an easy *thing* to see. Koohii #1 The sun is not an easy place to get to. Koohii #2 Under the sun, it is easy to untie a knot. Under a pitch-dark sky, it is knot so easy. Primitives easy, sun, day, knot, piglet’s tail 簡易(かんい): simplicity, easiness, quasi- 交易(こうえき): trade, commerce 容易い(たやすい): easy, simple, light 辟易(へきえき): wince, shrink back, succumbing to, being frightened, disconcerted 易い(やすい): easy 安易(あんい): easygoing 容易(ようい): easy, simple, plain 貿易(ぼうえき): trade 易しい(やさしい): easy, plain, simple Kunyomi: やさ.しい、やす.い Onyomi: エキ、イ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 易者 (えきしゃ), 貿易 (ぼうえき), 不易 (ふえき), 易しい (やさ.しい)
"grant Details Story Dictionary 賜 grant Heisig's Shells . . . easy. Koohii #1 A grant is easy money. Koohii #2 Do you want free shells from the government? It´s easy with my new book, ""How to Get a Free Grant from the Government!"" Call today! Primitives grant, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, easy, sun, day, knot, piglet’s tail 賜る(たまわる): to grant, to bestow Kunyomi: たまわ.る、たま.う、たも.う Onyomi: シ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 賜る (たまわ.る)"	"grant 賜 画数15 1131 Details Story Dictionary 賜 grant Heisig's Shells . . . easy. Koohii #1 A grant is easy money. Koohii #2 Do you want free shells from the government? It´s easy with my new book, ""How to Get a Free Grant from the Government!"" Call today! Primitives grant, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, easy, sun, day, knot, piglet’s tail 賜る(たまわる): to grant, to bestow Kunyomi: たまわ.る、たま.う、たも.う Onyomi: シ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 賜る (たまわ.る)"
"urine Details Story Dictionary 尿 urine Heisig's Flag . . . water. Koohii #1 Animals use their urine to mark their territory. So for them, their body water works as a flag denoting their ""country"" (why bother? we all know which story you are going to pick). Koohii #2 Someone is pissing on the American flag, but since the urine is clear it looks like water. Primitives urine, flag, water 屎尿(しにょう): excreta, raw sewage, human waste, night soil 尿(にょう): urine Kunyomi: Onyomi: ニョウ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"urine 尿 画数7 1132 Details Story Dictionary 尿 urine Heisig's Flag . . . water. Koohii #1 Animals use their urine to mark their territory. So for them, their body water works as a flag denoting their ""country"" (why bother? we all know which story you are going to pick). Koohii #2 Someone is pissing on the American flag, but since the urine is clear it looks like water. Primitives urine, flag, water 屎尿(しにょう): excreta, raw sewage, human waste, night soil 尿(にょう): urine Kunyomi: Onyomi: ニョウ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
nun Details Story Dictionary 尼 nun Heisig's Flag . . . spoon. Koohii #1 Red cross nuns sit in a tent under the red cross flag, spooning out food to the hungry. Koohii #2 A nun sits in protests under an American flag. Primitives nun, flag, spoon, sitting on the ground Kunyomi: あま Onyomi: ニ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 尼 (あま)	nun 尼 画数5 1133 Details Story Dictionary 尼 nun Heisig's Flag . . . spoon. Koohii #1 Red cross nuns sit in a tent under the red cross flag, spooning out food to the hungry. Koohii #2 A nun sits in protests under an American flag. Primitives nun, flag, spoon, sitting on the ground Kunyomi: あま Onyomi: ニ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 尼 (あま)
buttocks Details Story Dictionary 尻 buttocks Heisig's Flag . . . baseball team. Koohii #1 The baseball team stick flags in their buttocks and wave them at the opposing team to put them off. Koohii #2 I wonder if this story will be flagged for saying i give her buttocks a score of 9. Primitives buttocks, flag, nine, baseball 尻尾(しっぽ): tail (animal) 尻(しり): buttocks, bottom Kunyomi: しり Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 尻 (しり)	buttocks 尻 画数5 1134 Details Story Dictionary 尻 buttocks Heisig's Flag . . . baseball team. Koohii #1 The baseball team stick flags in their buttocks and wave them at the opposing team to put them off. Koohii #2 I wonder if this story will be flagged for saying i give her buttocks a score of 9. Primitives buttocks, flag, nine, baseball 尻尾(しっぽ): tail (animal) 尻(しり): buttocks, bottom Kunyomi: しり Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 尻 (しり)
mud Details Story Dictionary 泥 mud Heisig's Water . . . nun. Koohii #1 TV gets weirder and weirder... Now they´re doing mud wrestling shows with nuns splashing around in the water. What will they think of next? Koohii #2 Water monks live in a den, but water nuns live in the MUD. Primitives mud, water, water droplets, water pistol, nun, flag, spoon, sitting on the ground 泥(どろ): mud 泥棒(どろぼう): robber Kunyomi: どろ Onyomi: デイ、ナイ、デ、ニ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 泥 (どろ)	mud 泥 画数8 1135 Details Story Dictionary 泥 mud Heisig's Water . . . nun. Koohii #1 TV gets weirder and weirder... Now they´re doing mud wrestling shows with nuns splashing around in the water. What will they think of next? Koohii #2 Water monks live in a den, but water nuns live in the MUD. Primitives mud, water, water droplets, water pistol, nun, flag, spoon, sitting on the ground 泥(どろ): mud 泥棒(どろぼう): robber Kunyomi: どろ Onyomi: デイ、ナイ、デ、ニ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 泥 (どろ)
"fence Details Story Dictionary 塀 fence Heisig's Soil . . . flag . . . puzzle. Koohii #1 [fence; wall; (kokuji)] A fence separates one soil from the other. On a large scale, large pieces of soils in the world have a virtual fence called nation. Picture a world map where all countries have their soil with one color, their national flag as the legend and a fence on the borders... don´t you think it looks like a giant puzzle? Koohii #2 Why the Earth has to be fenced off and flags used to represent each ""country"" is a puzzle to me - we´re all just monkeys on a big rock spinning round the Sun! Primitives fence, soil, dirt, ground, folding screen, flag, puzzle, horns, two hands 塀(へい): wall, fence Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヘイ、ベイ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"fence 塀 画数12 1136 Details Story Dictionary 塀 fence Heisig's Soil . . . flag . . . puzzle. Koohii #1 [fence; wall; (kokuji)] A fence separates one soil from the other. On a large scale, large pieces of soils in the world have a virtual fence called nation. Picture a world map where all countries have their soil with one color, their national flag as the legend and a fence on the borders... don´t you think it looks like a giant puzzle? Koohii #2 Why the Earth has to be fenced off and flags used to represent each ""country"" is a puzzle to me - we´re all just monkeys on a big rock spinning round the Sun! Primitives fence, soil, dirt, ground, folding screen, flag, puzzle, horns, two hands 塀(へい): wall, fence Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヘイ、ベイ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
footgear Details Story Dictionary 履 footgear Heisig's Flag . . . restore. Koohii #1 NOTE: The most common use is in はく, meaning to put on footgear, rather than actual footgear itself. STORY: You are asleep in camp when you are woken up with news that the FLAG has fallen to the enemy. You quickly PUT ON YOUR FOOTGEAR and run off to RESTORE the FLAG. Koohii #2 You should never use a flag as a shoeshine cloth to restore your footgear. Primitives footgear, flag, restore, Nelson, column, going, line, fold back, double back, reclining, lying down, sun, day, walking legs 履く(はく): to wear, to put on (lower body) 履歴(りれき): personal history, background, career, log 草履(ぞうり): sandals Kunyomi: は.く Onyomi: リ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 履く (は.く)	footgear 履 画数15 1137 Details Story Dictionary 履 footgear Heisig's Flag . . . restore. Koohii #1 NOTE: The most common use is in はく, meaning to put on footgear, rather than actual footgear itself. STORY: You are asleep in camp when you are woken up with news that the FLAG has fallen to the enemy. You quickly PUT ON YOUR FOOTGEAR and run off to RESTORE the FLAG. Koohii #2 You should never use a flag as a shoeshine cloth to restore your footgear. Primitives footgear, flag, restore, Nelson, column, going, line, fold back, double back, reclining, lying down, sun, day, walking legs 履く(はく): to wear, to put on (lower body) 履歴(りれき): personal history, background, career, log 草履(ぞうり): sandals Kunyomi: は.く Onyomi: リ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 履く (は.く)
"roof Details Story Dictionary 屋 roof Heisig's Flag . . . climax. Note that this kanji has no relation to the drawing of a ""roof"" used in the primitive for house. Koohii #1 Flag at the climax (highest point) of a castle roof. Koohii #2 A couple climaxing on the roof, draped in the American flag. The neighbors are mortified and call the landlady... Primitives roof, flag, climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground 問屋(といや): wholesale store 床屋(とこや): barber 屋敷(やしき): mansion 屋外(おくがい): outdoors 家屋(かおく): house, building 小屋(こや): hut, cabin, shed, (animal) pen 店屋(みせや): store, shop 屋根(やね): roof 屋上(おくじょう): the roof top 部屋(へや): room 八百屋(やおや): greengrocer Kunyomi: や Onyomi: オク Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 屋 (や)"	"roof 屋 画数9 1138 Details Story Dictionary 屋 roof Heisig's Flag . . . climax. Note that this kanji has no relation to the drawing of a ""roof"" used in the primitive for house. Koohii #1 Flag at the climax (highest point) of a castle roof. Koohii #2 A couple climaxing on the roof, draped in the American flag. The neighbors are mortified and call the landlady... Primitives roof, flag, climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground 問屋(といや): wholesale store 床屋(とこや): barber 屋敷(やしき): mansion 屋外(おくがい): outdoors 家屋(かおく): house, building 小屋(こや): hut, cabin, shed, (animal) pen 店屋(みせや): store, shop 屋根(やね): roof 屋上(おくじょう): the roof top 部屋(へや): room 八百屋(やおや): greengrocer Kunyomi: や Onyomi: オク Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 屋 (や)"
"grip Details Story Dictionary 握 grip Heisig's Fingers . . . roof. Koohii #1 Fingers gripping the roof as your about to fall to your death. Think of an action scene in some movie. Koohii #2 (This is the にぎ of sushi). A sushi chef climaxes into a rice ball, wraps it in an American flag, and grips is firm with his fingers to form the ""Fuck You America Onigiri."". Primitives grip, finger, fingers, roof, flag climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground 把握(はあく): grasp, catch, understanding 握手(あくしゅ): handshake 握る(にぎる): grasp, seize, mould (sushi) Kunyomi: にぎ.る Onyomi: アク Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 握る (にぎ.る)"	"grip 握 画数12 1139 Details Story Dictionary 握 grip Heisig's Fingers . . . roof. Koohii #1 Fingers gripping the roof as your about to fall to your death. Think of an action scene in some movie. Koohii #2 (This is the にぎ of sushi). A sushi chef climaxes into a rice ball, wraps it in an American flag, and grips is firm with his fingers to form the ""Fuck You America Onigiri."". Primitives grip, finger, fingers, roof, flag climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground 把握(はあく): grasp, catch, understanding 握手(あくしゅ): handshake 握る(にぎる): grasp, seize, mould (sushi) Kunyomi: にぎ.る Onyomi: アク Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 握る (にぎ.る)"
yield Details Story Dictionary 屈 yield My Story [Flag + Exit] When yielding, soldiers raise the white *flag* before *exiting* from the trenches. Koohii #1 When yielding, soldiers raise the white flag before exiting from the trenches. Koohii #2 If you live in Japan, you are only too familiar with the helpful little man who assists you in getting out of every parking lot or parking garage, standing at the exit, waving his flag to make traffic yield to you. Primitives yield, flag, exit 窮屈(きゅうくつ): narrow, tight, stiff, rigid, uneasy, formal, constrained 屈折(くっせつ): bending, indentation, refraction 理屈(りくつ): theory, reason 退屈(たいくつ): tedium, boredom Kunyomi: かが.む、かが.める Onyomi: クツ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	yield 屈 画数8 1140 Details Story Dictionary 屈 yield My Story [Flag + Exit] When yielding, soldiers raise the white *flag* before *exiting* from the trenches. Koohii #1 When yielding, soldiers raise the white flag before exiting from the trenches. Koohii #2 If you live in Japan, you are only too familiar with the helpful little man who assists you in getting out of every parking lot or parking garage, standing at the exit, waving his flag to make traffic yield to you. Primitives yield, flag, exit 窮屈(きゅうくつ): narrow, tight, stiff, rigid, uneasy, formal, constrained 屈折(くっせつ): bending, indentation, refraction 理屈(りくつ): theory, reason 退屈(たいくつ): tedium, boredom Kunyomi: かが.む、かが.める Onyomi: クツ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
dig Details Story Dictionary 掘 dig Heisig's Fingers . . . yield. Koohii #1 If you dig with your fingers hard enough, soil eventually yields. Koohii #2 When you dig, you´d better hope that whatever you´re digging into yields to your fingers. If not, you´re bound to lose some nails. Primitives dig, finger, fingers, yield, flag, exit 採掘(さいくつ): mining 発掘(はっくつ): excavation, exhumation 掘る(ほる): dig, excavate Kunyomi: ほ.る Onyomi: クツ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 掘る (ほ.る)	dig 掘 画数11 1141 Details Story Dictionary 掘 dig Heisig's Fingers . . . yield. Koohii #1 If you dig with your fingers hard enough, soil eventually yields. Koohii #2 When you dig, you´d better hope that whatever you´re digging into yields to your fingers. If not, you´re bound to lose some nails. Primitives dig, finger, fingers, yield, flag, exit 採掘(さいくつ): mining 発掘(はっくつ): excavation, exhumation 掘る(ほる): dig, excavate Kunyomi: ほ.る Onyomi: クツ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 掘る (ほ.る)
ditch Details Story Dictionary 堀 ditch Heisig's Soil . . . yield. Koohii #1 (See dig (#1061)). When soil finally yielded thanks to your digging efforts, what you have is a ditch. Koohii #2 Ditch / trench. The yielding army abandons it´s patch of soil, leaving behind a landscape of ditchs and trenches. Trench warfare. Primitives ditch, moat, soil, dirt, ground, yield, flag, exit 堀(ほり): moat, canal Kunyomi: ほり Onyomi: クツ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 堀 (ほり)	ditch 堀 画数11 1142 Details Story Dictionary 堀 ditch Heisig's Soil . . . yield. Koohii #1 (See dig (#1061)). When soil finally yielded thanks to your digging efforts, what you have is a ditch. Koohii #2 Ditch / trench. The yielding army abandons it´s patch of soil, leaving behind a landscape of ditchs and trenches. Trench warfare. Primitives ditch, moat, soil, dirt, ground, yield, flag, exit 堀(ほり): moat, canal Kunyomi: ほり Onyomi: クツ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 堀 (ほり)
reside Details Story Dictionary 居 reside Heisig's Flag . . . old. Do not confuse with dwell (Frame 1027). Koohii #1 A humongous American flag in Florida marks the place where all the old people reside. Koohii #2 It is an old tradition that people plant a flag on places where decide to reside; this tradition still goes on: Antarctica, the moon: flags all over the place! cf. set (#1064). Primitives reside, flag, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 隠居(いんきょ): retirement, retired person 居る(おる): be here (polite) 居住(きょじゅう): residence 皇居(こうきょ): Imperial Palace 転居(てんきょ): moving, changing residence 同居(どうきょ): living together 鳥居(とりい): torii (Shinto shrine archway) 居眠り(いねむり): dozing, nodding off 居間(いま): living room (Western style) 芝居(しばい): play, drama 住居(じゅうきょ): dwelling, house, residence, address 居る(いる): to be (animate), to exist Kunyomi: い.る、-い、お.る Onyomi: キョ、コ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 居る (い.る)	reside 居 画数8 1143 Details Story Dictionary 居 reside Heisig's Flag . . . old. Do not confuse with dwell (Frame 1027). Koohii #1 A humongous American flag in Florida marks the place where all the old people reside. Koohii #2 It is an old tradition that people plant a flag on places where decide to reside; this tradition still goes on: Antarctica, the moon: flags all over the place! cf. set (#1064). Primitives reside, flag, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 隠居(いんきょ): retirement, retired person 居る(おる): be here (polite) 居住(きょじゅう): residence 皇居(こうきょ): Imperial Palace 転居(てんきょ): moving, changing residence 同居(どうきょ): living together 鳥居(とりい): torii (Shinto shrine archway) 居眠り(いねむり): dozing, nodding off 居間(いま): living room (Western style) 芝居(しばい): play, drama 住居(じゅうきょ): dwelling, house, residence, address 居る(いる): to be (animate), to exist Kunyomi: い.る、-い、お.る Onyomi: キョ、コ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 居る (い.る)
"set Details Story Dictionary 据 set Heisig's Fingers . . . reside. Koohii #1 The man set his finger firmly on the map and said ""Here is where they reside, I am certain of it"". Koohii #2 Cf. reside (#1063): you set the flag with your fingers on the place where you reside: an old tradition. Primitives set, finger, fingers, reside, flag, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 据え付ける(すえつける): to install, to equip, to mount 据える(すえる): to set (table), to lay (foundation), to place (gun), to apply (moxa) Kunyomi: す.える、す.わる Onyomi: キョ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 据える (す.える), 据わる (す.わる)"	"set 据 画数11 1144 Details Story Dictionary 据 set Heisig's Fingers . . . reside. Koohii #1 The man set his finger firmly on the map and said ""Here is where they reside, I am certain of it"". Koohii #2 Cf. reside (#1063): you set the flag with your fingers on the place where you reside: an old tradition. Primitives set, finger, fingers, reside, flag, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 据え付ける(すえつける): to install, to equip, to mount 据える(すえる): to set (table), to lay (foundation), to place (gun), to apply (moxa) Kunyomi: す.える、す.わる Onyomi: キョ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 据える (す.える), 据わる (す.わる)"
hem Details Story Dictionary 裾 hem Heisig's Cloak . . . reside. Koohii #1 Something is residing in the hem of your cloak. Maybe you should consider cleaning it? キョ コ すそ cuff; hem; foot of mountain. Koohii #2 If you reside in the slums, you start off as a small child with a very large cloak. As you grow it gets hemmed. The rich kids just get new cloaks. Primitives hem, cloak, reside, flag, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 裾(すそ): (trouser) cuff, (skirt) hem, cut edge of a hairdo, foot of mountain Kunyomi: すそ Onyomi: キョ、コ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 裾 (すそ)	hem 裾 画数13 1145 Details Story Dictionary 裾 hem Heisig's Cloak . . . reside. Koohii #1 Something is residing in the hem of your cloak. Maybe you should consider cleaning it? キョ コ すそ cuff; hem; foot of mountain. Koohii #2 If you reside in the slums, you start off as a small child with a very large cloak. As you grow it gets hemmed. The rich kids just get new cloaks. Primitives hem, cloak, reside, flag, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 裾(すそ): (trouser) cuff, (skirt) hem, cut edge of a hairdo, foot of mountain Kunyomi: すそ Onyomi: キョ、コ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 裾 (すそ)
stratum Details Story Dictionary 層 stratum Heisig's Flag . . . increase. Koohii #1 The strata have piled up in an ever increasing pile of dirt. As the geologists go down the rocks, they flag each stratum with the name of the corresponding era. Koohii #2 Archaeologists at a dig site place small flags marking layers or strata of rock. Each of these layers was formerly the top layer. (This is not increase! Hseige keeps messing up). Primitives stratum, flag, increase, formerly, horns, rice field, brains, sun, day 階層(かいそう): class, level, stratum, hierarchy 一層(いっそう): much more, still more, all the more 高層(こうそう): upper 大層(たいそう): very much, exaggerated, very fine Kunyomi: Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	stratum 層 画数14 1146 Details Story Dictionary 層 stratum Heisig's Flag . . . increase. Koohii #1 The strata have piled up in an ever increasing pile of dirt. As the geologists go down the rocks, they flag each stratum with the name of the corresponding era. Koohii #2 Archaeologists at a dig site place small flags marking layers or strata of rock. Each of these layers was formerly the top layer. (This is not increase! Hseige keeps messing up). Primitives stratum, flag, increase, formerly, horns, rice field, brains, sun, day 階層(かいそう): class, level, stratum, hierarchy 一層(いっそう): much more, still more, all the more 高層(こうそう): upper 大層(たいそう): very much, exaggerated, very fine Kunyomi: Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
bureau Details Story Dictionary 局 bureau Heisig's Flag . . . phrase. Note how the flag's long stroke doubles up for the first stroke of phrase. Koohii #1 The Federal Bureau of Investigation has email scanners that flag certain phrases. Koohii #2 They do nothing at the bureau other than repeating the stupid catchphrase they have on their flag. Primitives bureau, flag, phrase, bound up, mouth 局限(きょくげん): limit, localize 局(きょく): channel (i.e. TV or radio), department, affair, situation 結局(けっきょく): after all, eventually 薬局(やっきょく): pharmacy 郵便局(ゆうびんきょく): post office Kunyomi: つぼね Onyomi: キョク Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	bureau 局 画数7 1147 Details Story Dictionary 局 bureau Heisig's Flag . . . phrase. Note how the flag's long stroke doubles up for the first stroke of phrase. Koohii #1 The Federal Bureau of Investigation has email scanners that flag certain phrases. Koohii #2 They do nothing at the bureau other than repeating the stupid catchphrase they have on their flag. Primitives bureau, flag, phrase, bound up, mouth 局限(きょくげん): limit, localize 局(きょく): channel (i.e. TV or radio), department, affair, situation 結局(けっきょく): after all, eventually 薬局(やっきょく): pharmacy 郵便局(ゆうびんきょく): post office Kunyomi: つぼね Onyomi: キョク Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
"slow Details Story Dictionary 遅 slow My Story [Flag + Sheep + Motion/movement] Road sign (*flag*): ""*Sheep* on are *moving* on a highway! Drive slowly."" Koohii #1 A sheep crossing guard waves a SLOW flag for his fellow sheep crossing the road. Koohii #2 Road sign (flag): ""Sheep on highway! Drive slowly."". Primitives slow, flag, sheep, road 遅らす(おくらす): to retard, to delay 遅れ(おくれ): delay, lag 遅くとも(おそくとも): at the latest 手遅れ(ておくれ): too late, belated treatment 遅刻(ちこく): lateness, late coming 遅れる(おくれる): to be late 遅い(おそい): late, slow Kunyomi: おく.れる、おく.らす、おそ.い Onyomi: チ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 遅らす (おく.らす), 遅れる (おく.れる), 遅い (おそ.い)"	"slow 遅 画数12 1148 Details Story Dictionary 遅 slow My Story [Flag + Sheep + Motion/movement] Road sign (*flag*): ""*Sheep* on are *moving* on a highway! Drive slowly."" Koohii #1 A sheep crossing guard waves a SLOW flag for his fellow sheep crossing the road. Koohii #2 Road sign (flag): ""Sheep on highway! Drive slowly."". Primitives slow, flag, sheep, road 遅らす(おくらす): to retard, to delay 遅れ(おくれ): delay, lag 遅くとも(おそくとも): at the latest 手遅れ(ておくれ): too late, belated treatment 遅刻(ちこく): lateness, late coming 遅れる(おくれる): to be late 遅い(おそい): late, slow Kunyomi: おく.れる、おく.らす、おそ.い Onyomi: チ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 遅らす (おく.らす), 遅れる (おく.れる), 遅い (おそ.い)"
leak Details Story Dictionary 漏 leak Heisig's Water . . . flag . . . rain. Koohii #1 WATER always LEAKED in the spot left by the FLAG planted in the roof everytime it RAINED. Not too hard to picture a hole left in the ceiling from a flag, now leaking water. Koohii #2 Mark the holes where rain water can leak through with little flags. Primitives leak, water, water droplets, water pistol, flag, rain, weather 漏らす(もらす): to let leak, to reveal 漏る(もる): to leak, to run out 漏れる(もれる): to leak out, to escape, to come through, to shine through, to filter out, to be omitted Kunyomi: も.る、も.れる、も.らす Onyomi: ロウ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 漏らす (も.らす), 漏る (も.る), 漏れる (も.れる)	leak 漏 画数14 1149 Details Story Dictionary 漏 leak Heisig's Water . . . flag . . . rain. Koohii #1 WATER always LEAKED in the spot left by the FLAG planted in the roof everytime it RAINED. Not too hard to picture a hole left in the ceiling from a flag, now leaking water. Koohii #2 Mark the holes where rain water can leak through with little flags. Primitives leak, water, water droplets, water pistol, flag, rain, weather 漏らす(もらす): to let leak, to reveal 漏る(もる): to leak, to run out 漏れる(もれる): to leak out, to escape, to come through, to shine through, to filter out, to be omitted Kunyomi: も.る、も.れる、も.らす Onyomi: ロウ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 漏らす (も.らす), 漏る (も.る), 漏れる (も.れる)
printing Details Story Dictionary 刷 printing Heisig's Flag . . . towel . . . saber. Koohii #1 We printed a japanese flag on his white towel by stabbing him with a saber while he was wearing it. Koohii #2 The image that keeps coming to me is of the giant mechanical printing presses. The cloth-based material is coming off the roll like a flag and then, after printing, gets cut into sheets by saber-like cutting tools. Primitives printing, flag, towel, sword, sabre, saber 刷り(すり): printing 印刷(いんさつ): printing 刷る(する): print, publish Kunyomi: す.る、-ず.り、-ずり、は.く Onyomi: サツ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 刷る (す.る)	printing 刷 画数8 1150 Details Story Dictionary 刷 printing Heisig's Flag . . . towel . . . saber. Koohii #1 We printed a japanese flag on his white towel by stabbing him with a saber while he was wearing it. Koohii #2 The image that keeps coming to me is of the giant mechanical printing presses. The cloth-based material is coming off the roll like a flag and then, after printing, gets cut into sheets by saber-like cutting tools. Primitives printing, flag, towel, sword, sabre, saber 刷り(すり): printing 印刷(いんさつ): printing 刷る(する): print, publish Kunyomi: す.る、-ず.り、-ずり、は.く Onyomi: サツ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 刷る (す.る)
"shaku Details Story Dictionary 尺 shaku Heisig's The key word shaku has actually come into English in the word shakuhachi, the ancient Japanese flute that measured ""one shaku and eight sun"" (the ""sun"" being about an inch in length). Since the shaku is about one foot in length, this makes about 20 inches. Let the final sweeping stroke be like a tape measure added to the flag. * As a primitive, this will mean the shakuhachi flute. Koohii #1 Slang for blowjob and that´s priceless for stories...but also the character looks like the letter R which I think of as standing for RULER (12 inches) other meanings include: rule, measure, length. Koohii #2 Since this is SLANG for BLOW JOB and since it looks like an ""R"", let´s have the primitive be the R in BROW JOB. :). Primitives shaku, flag, stick Kunyomi: Onyomi: シャク Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"shaku 尺 画数4 1151 Details Story Dictionary 尺 shaku Heisig's The key word shaku has actually come into English in the word shakuhachi, the ancient Japanese flute that measured ""one shaku and eight sun"" (the ""sun"" being about an inch in length). Since the shaku is about one foot in length, this makes about 20 inches. Let the final sweeping stroke be like a tape measure added to the flag. * As a primitive, this will mean the shakuhachi flute. Koohii #1 Slang for blowjob and that´s priceless for stories...but also the character looks like the letter R which I think of as standing for RULER (12 inches) other meanings include: rule, measure, length. Koohii #2 Since this is SLANG for BLOW JOB and since it looks like an ""R"", let´s have the primitive be the R in BROW JOB. :). Primitives shaku, flag, stick Kunyomi: Onyomi: シャク Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"exhaust Details Story Dictionary 尽 exhaust Heisig's Shakuhachi . . . ice. Koohii #1 A women is so exhausted by her ""shakuhachi"" that see needs to ice her jaw. Koohii #2 That´s not ice...it´s my last drops and I´m exhausted! ;). Primitives exhaust, shaku-hachi, flag, stick, ice 尽きる(つきる): to be used up, to be run out, to be exhausted, to be consumed, to come to an end 尽くす(つくす): to exhaust, to run out, to serve (a person), to befriend Kunyomi: つ.くす、-つ.くす、-づ.くし、-つ.く、-づ.く、-ず.く、つ.きる、つ.かす、さかづき、ことごと.く、つか、つき Onyomi: ジン、サン Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 尽かす (つ.かす), 尽きる (つ.きる), 尽くす (つ.くす)"	"exhaust 尽 画数6 1152 Details Story Dictionary 尽 exhaust Heisig's Shakuhachi . . . ice. Koohii #1 A women is so exhausted by her ""shakuhachi"" that see needs to ice her jaw. Koohii #2 That´s not ice...it´s my last drops and I´m exhausted! ;). Primitives exhaust, shaku-hachi, flag, stick, ice 尽きる(つきる): to be used up, to be run out, to be exhausted, to be consumed, to come to an end 尽くす(つくす): to exhaust, to run out, to serve (a person), to befriend Kunyomi: つ.くす、-つ.くす、-づ.くし、-つ.く、-づ.く、-ず.く、つ.きる、つ.かす、さかづき、ことごと.く、つか、つき Onyomi: ジン、サン Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 尽かす (つ.かす), 尽きる (つ.きる), 尽くす (つ.くす)"
swamp Details Story Dictionary 沢 swamp Heisig's Water . . . shakuhachi. Koohii #1 You´re hiding from the enemy underwater in a swamp. To breathe, you have your shakuhachi flute poking up through the surface of the water. Koohii #2 Sirens in the swamp play eerie music on their shakuhachi flutes to lure you in - you follow the enchanting music then its too late as you get trapped in the swamp! Primitives swamp, water, water droplets, water pistol, shaku-hachi, flag, stick 光沢(こうたく): brilliance, polish, lustre, glossy finish (of photographs) 贅沢(ぜいたく): luxury, extravagance Kunyomi: さわ、うるお.い、うるお.す、つや Onyomi: タク Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 沢 (さわ)	swamp 沢 画数7 1153 Details Story Dictionary 沢 swamp Heisig's Water . . . shakuhachi. Koohii #1 You´re hiding from the enemy underwater in a swamp. To breathe, you have your shakuhachi flute poking up through the surface of the water. Koohii #2 Sirens in the swamp play eerie music on their shakuhachi flutes to lure you in - you follow the enchanting music then its too late as you get trapped in the swamp! Primitives swamp, water, water droplets, water pistol, shaku-hachi, flag, stick 光沢(こうたく): brilliance, polish, lustre, glossy finish (of photographs) 贅沢(ぜいたく): luxury, extravagance Kunyomi: さわ、うるお.い、うるお.す、つや Onyomi: タク Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 沢 (さわ)
translate Details Story Dictionary 訳 translate My Story [Say/Words + R (custom prim)] With my rad *words* and *sayings*, I radically *R*apped this whole story Koohii #1 You cannot pretend to translate into words the melody of the shakuhachi! Koohii #2 You all know that ´shakuhachi´ is a slang word for blowjob, right? In this kanji you got a job as a TRANSLATOR for Japanese porno movies. So you sit there all day translating dirty WORDS and watching girls perform SHAKUHACHI. This is the life! Primitives translate, say, words, keitai, mouth, shaku-hachi, flag, stick 言い訳(いいわけ): excuse, explanation 内訳(うちわけ): the items, breakdown, classification 通訳(つうやく): interpretation 申し訳(もうしわけ): apology, excuse 申し訳ない(もうしわけない): inexcusable 訳(やく): translation 訳す(やくす): translate 翻訳(ほんやく): translate 訳(わけ): reason Kunyomi: わけ Onyomi: ヤク Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 訳 (わけ)	translate 訳 画数11 1154 Details Story Dictionary 訳 translate My Story [Say/Words + R (custom prim)] With my rad *words* and *sayings*, I radically *R*apped this whole story Koohii #1 You cannot pretend to translate into words the melody of the shakuhachi! Koohii #2 You all know that ´shakuhachi´ is a slang word for blowjob, right? In this kanji you got a job as a TRANSLATOR for Japanese porno movies. So you sit there all day translating dirty WORDS and watching girls perform SHAKUHACHI. This is the life! Primitives translate, say, words, keitai, mouth, shaku-hachi, flag, stick 言い訳(いいわけ): excuse, explanation 内訳(うちわけ): the items, breakdown, classification 通訳(つうやく): interpretation 申し訳(もうしわけ): apology, excuse 申し訳ない(もうしわけない): inexcusable 訳(やく): translation 訳す(やくす): translate 翻訳(ほんやく): translate 訳(わけ): reason Kunyomi: わけ Onyomi: ヤク Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 訳 (わけ)
"choose Details Story Dictionary 択 choose Heisig's Fingers . . . shakuhachi. Koohii #1 Hand job or ""shakuhachi"", choose. Koohii #2 Depending on where you choose to put your fingers, the shakuhachi will produce a different note. Primitives choose, finger, fingers, shaku-hachi, flag, stick 採択(さいたく): adoption, selection, choice 選択(せんたく): selection, choice Kunyomi: えら.ぶ Onyomi: タク Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"choose 択 画数7 1155 Details Story Dictionary 択 choose Heisig's Fingers . . . shakuhachi. Koohii #1 Hand job or ""shakuhachi"", choose. Koohii #2 Depending on where you choose to put your fingers, the shakuhachi will produce a different note. Primitives choose, finger, fingers, shaku-hachi, flag, stick 採択(さいたく): adoption, selection, choice 選択(せんたく): selection, choice Kunyomi: えら.ぶ Onyomi: タク Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
daytime Details Story Dictionary 昼 daytime Heisig's Shakuhachi . . . nightbreak. Koohii #1 Roosters in Japan are very civilised, they play the shakuhachi at nightbreak to signify the beginning of daytime. Koohii #2 In a Zelda game, you can warp to the daytime if you play your shakuhachi to bring about nightbreak... or your ocarina if you don´t have a shakuhachi. Primitives daytime, shaku-hachi, flag, stick, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor 昼間(ちゅうかん): daytime, during the day 昼飯(ちゅうはん): lunch, midday meal お昼(おひる): lunch, noon 昼食(ちゅうしょく): lunch, midday meal 昼寝(ひるね): nap (at home), siesta 昼間(ひるま): daytime, during the daytime 昼休み(ひるやすみ): lunch break 昼(ひる): noon, daytime 昼御飯(ひるごはん): lunch, midday meal Kunyomi: ひる Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 昼 (ひる)	daytime 昼 画数9 1156 Details Story Dictionary 昼 daytime Heisig's Shakuhachi . . . nightbreak. Koohii #1 Roosters in Japan are very civilised, they play the shakuhachi at nightbreak to signify the beginning of daytime. Koohii #2 In a Zelda game, you can warp to the daytime if you play your shakuhachi to bring about nightbreak... or your ocarina if you don´t have a shakuhachi. Primitives daytime, shaku-hachi, flag, stick, nightbreak, sun, day, one, floor 昼間(ちゅうかん): daytime, during the day 昼飯(ちゅうはん): lunch, midday meal お昼(おひる): lunch, noon 昼食(ちゅうしょく): lunch, midday meal 昼寝(ひるね): nap (at home), siesta 昼間(ひるま): daytime, during the daytime 昼休み(ひるやすみ): lunch break 昼(ひる): noon, daytime 昼御飯(ひるごはん): lunch, midday meal Kunyomi: ひる Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 昼 (ひる)
"door Details Story Dictionary 戸 door Heisig's Ceiling . . . flag. Koohii #1 Traditional Japanese storefront doors have several flags, known as ""noren,"" hanging down from a curtain rod in front of them. I see this as a pseudo-pictograph, and use the horizontal line across the top to represent the curtain rod, since noren don´t usually hang from the ceiling. Koohii #2 A Japanese door has a noren, a flag hanging from a rod. (I give this primitive the meaning of a noren-covered door). Primitives door, one, flag 戸(こ): counter for houses 戸籍(こせき): census, family register 戸締り(とじまり): closing up, fastening the doors 雨戸(あまど): (sliding) storm door 井戸(いど): water well 瀬戸物(せともの): earthenware, crockery, china 戸棚(とだな): cupboard, locker, closet, wardrobe 戸(と): door (Japanese style) Kunyomi: と Onyomi: コ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 戸 (と)"	"door 戸 画数4 1157 Details Story Dictionary 戸 door Heisig's Ceiling . . . flag. Koohii #1 Traditional Japanese storefront doors have several flags, known as ""noren,"" hanging down from a curtain rod in front of them. I see this as a pseudo-pictograph, and use the horizontal line across the top to represent the curtain rod, since noren don´t usually hang from the ceiling. Koohii #2 A Japanese door has a noren, a flag hanging from a rod. (I give this primitive the meaning of a noren-covered door). Primitives door, one, flag 戸(こ): counter for houses 戸籍(こせき): census, family register 戸締り(とじまり): closing up, fastening the doors 雨戸(あまど): (sliding) storm door 井戸(いど): water well 瀬戸物(せともの): earthenware, crockery, china 戸棚(とだな): cupboard, locker, closet, wardrobe 戸(と): door (Japanese style) Kunyomi: と Onyomi: コ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 戸 (と)"
shoulder Details Story Dictionary 肩 shoulder My Story My Shol*DOOR* is an organ that hurts Koohii #1 The shoulder is the best part of the body to bash a door open with (Don´t ever try this. Use your foot). Koohii #2 The shoulder is part of the body you use to push through the noren in a doorway. I was having trouble with positioning of the primitives until I tweaked shaydwyrm´s story slightly. If you think of pushing through a noren, this makes sense as a pictograph. The noren hangs from above, and you push through it from below. Primitives shoulder, door, one, ceiling, flag, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 肩(かた): shoulder Kunyomi: かた Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 肩 (かた)	shoulder 肩 画数8 1158 Details Story Dictionary 肩 shoulder My Story My Shol*DOOR* is an organ that hurts Koohii #1 The shoulder is the best part of the body to bash a door open with (Don´t ever try this. Use your foot). Koohii #2 The shoulder is part of the body you use to push through the noren in a doorway. I was having trouble with positioning of the primitives until I tweaked shaydwyrm´s story slightly. If you think of pushing through a noren, this makes sense as a pictograph. The noren hangs from above, and you push through it from below. Primitives shoulder, door, one, ceiling, flag, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 肩(かた): shoulder Kunyomi: かた Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 肩 (かた)
"tassel Details Story Dictionary 房 tassel Heisig's Door . . . compass. Koohii #1 Explanation here: http://forum.koohii.com/viewtopic.php?pid=14684#p14684. Koohii #2 When you graduate from a school, after they gave you your tassel, they shove you to the door and give you a compass saying ""Sayonara & Good Luck out there!"" (ボウ). Primitives tassel, door, one, ceiling, flag, compass, direction 女房(にょうぼう): wife 文房具(ぶんぼうぐ): stationery 冷房(れいぼう): cooling, air-conditioning 暖房(だんぼう): heating Kunyomi: ふさ Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 房 (ふさ)"	"tassel 房 画数8 1159 Details Story Dictionary 房 tassel Heisig's Door . . . compass. Koohii #1 Explanation here: http://forum.koohii.com/viewtopic.php?pid=14684#p14684. Koohii #2 When you graduate from a school, after they gave you your tassel, they shove you to the door and give you a compass saying ""Sayonara & Good Luck out there!"" (ボウ). Primitives tassel, door, one, ceiling, flag, compass, direction 女房(にょうぼう): wife 文房具(ぶんぼうぐ): stationery 冷房(れいぼう): cooling, air-conditioning 暖房(だんぼう): heating Kunyomi: ふさ Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 房 (ふさ)"
fan Details Story Dictionary 扇 fan Heisig's Door . . . wings. Koohii #1 It´s insanely hot today! I´m standing in the doorway, fanning myself with feathers. Koohii #2 I am a fan of the Doors but I also like the Wings. I have a fan that I take to rock concerts with the picture of each band on the sides. Primitives fan, door, one, ceiling, flag, feathers, wings 団扇(うちわ): fan 扇子(せんす): folding fan 扇ぐ(あおぐ): to fan, to flap 扇風機(せんぷうき): electric fan Kunyomi: おうぎ Onyomi: セン Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 扇 (おうぎ)	fan 扇 画数10 1160 Details Story Dictionary 扇 fan Heisig's Door . . . wings. Koohii #1 It´s insanely hot today! I´m standing in the doorway, fanning myself with feathers. Koohii #2 I am a fan of the Doors but I also like the Wings. I have a fan that I take to rock concerts with the picture of each band on the sides. Primitives fan, door, one, ceiling, flag, feathers, wings 団扇(うちわ): fan 扇子(せんす): folding fan 扇ぐ(あおぐ): to fan, to flap 扇風機(せんぷうき): electric fan Kunyomi: おうぎ Onyomi: セン Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 扇 (おうぎ)
"hearth Details Story Dictionary 炉 hearth Heisig's Hearth fire . . . door. Koohii #1 This hearth is equipped with a fire-proof door. On the kanji you can see somewhat pictographically the fire-proof door keeping the fire behind, and nothing comes under the door primitive, where you would have expected to see another primitive. Koohii #2 -""Honey? Do we have any wood left for the hearth?"" -""Aagh, just use the frickin´ door!"". Primitives hearth-fire, door, one, ceiling, flag Kunyomi: いろり Onyomi: ロ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"hearth 炉 画数8 1161 Details Story Dictionary 炉 hearth Heisig's Hearth fire . . . door. Koohii #1 This hearth is equipped with a fire-proof door. On the kanji you can see somewhat pictographically the fire-proof door keeping the fire behind, and nothing comes under the door primitive, where you would have expected to see another primitive. Koohii #2 -""Honey? Do we have any wood left for the hearth?"" -""Aagh, just use the frickin´ door!"". Primitives hearth-fire, door, one, ceiling, flag Kunyomi: いろり Onyomi: ロ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"re- Details Story Dictionary 戻 re- Heisig's The key word signals a ""coming back"" or return to some place or activity. Its elements: door . . . St. Bernard dog. Koohii #1 The St. Bernard dog whining at the door of his master’s house in order to re-enter / re-turn inside. Koohii #2 Think about hachiko, the dog waiting at the door of the station, waiting for his master to re-turn. Primitives re-, door, one, ceiling, flag, large, St. Bernard 取り戻す(とりもどす): to take back, to regain 払い戻す(はらいもどす): repay, pay back 戻す(もどす): restore, put back, return 戻る(もどる): return Kunyomi: もど.す、もど.る Onyomi: レイ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 戻す (もど.す), 戻る (もど.る)"	"re- 戻 画数7 1162 Details Story Dictionary 戻 re- Heisig's The key word signals a ""coming back"" or return to some place or activity. Its elements: door . . . St. Bernard dog. Koohii #1 The St. Bernard dog whining at the door of his master’s house in order to re-enter / re-turn inside. Koohii #2 Think about hachiko, the dog waiting at the door of the station, waiting for his master to re-turn. Primitives re-, door, one, ceiling, flag, large, St. Bernard 取り戻す(とりもどす): to take back, to regain 払い戻す(はらいもどす): repay, pay back 戻す(もどす): restore, put back, return 戻る(もどる): return Kunyomi: もど.す、もど.る Onyomi: レイ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 戻す (もど.す), 戻る (もど.る)"
tears Details Story Dictionary 涙 tears My Story The master shed tears of joy when his lost dog returned to his doorstep. (See {戻}) Koohii #1 I see the story of Hachiko: the faithfull dog who still waited for his master to return long after he had died. Brings a tear to the eye. Koohii #2 Tears are watery (water + re). Primitives tears, water, water droplets, water pistol, re-, door, one, ceiling, flag, large, St. Bernard 涙(なみだ): tear Kunyomi: なみだ Onyomi: ルイ、レイ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 涙 (なみだ)	tears 涙 画数10 1163 Details Story Dictionary 涙 tears My Story The master shed tears of joy when his lost dog returned to his doorstep. (See {戻}) Koohii #1 I see the story of Hachiko: the faithfull dog who still waited for his master to return long after he had died. Brings a tear to the eye. Koohii #2 Tears are watery (water + re). Primitives tears, water, water droplets, water pistol, re-, door, one, ceiling, flag, large, St. Bernard 涙(なみだ): tear Kunyomi: なみだ Onyomi: ルイ、レイ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 涙 (なみだ)
"employ Details Story Dictionary 雇 employ Heisig's Door . . . turkey. Be sure to keep distinct from both employee (Frame 59) and use (Frame 1065). Koohii #1 Our company has no standards. We´ll employ any turkey who walks in the door. Koohii #2 Comedy. An executive is having an argument with a cocky, but skilled, employee: ""Damn it, you might be good. But that don´t account for your behavior. You keep this up and I´ll fire your ass."" ""No, you won´t."" ""What damn it, I´ll fire you your ass so fast you won´t...know...""-. ""And what will you do after you fire me, employ the next turkey that walks through that door?"" A turkey then walks through the door and hands the Exec his resume. --""The Exec employs the turkey that walked through the door"". Primitives employ, door, one, ceiling, flag, turkey 雇用(こよう): employment (long term), hire 雇う(やとう): employ, hire Kunyomi: やと.う Onyomi: コ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 雇う (やと.う)"	"employ 雇 画数12 1164 Details Story Dictionary 雇 employ Heisig's Door . . . turkey. Be sure to keep distinct from both employee (Frame 59) and use (Frame 1065). Koohii #1 Our company has no standards. We´ll employ any turkey who walks in the door. Koohii #2 Comedy. An executive is having an argument with a cocky, but skilled, employee: ""Damn it, you might be good. But that don´t account for your behavior. You keep this up and I´ll fire your ass."" ""No, you won´t."" ""What damn it, I´ll fire you your ass so fast you won´t...know...""-. ""And what will you do after you fire me, employ the next turkey that walks through that door?"" A turkey then walks through the door and hands the Exec his resume. --""The Exec employs the turkey that walked through the door"". Primitives employ, door, one, ceiling, flag, turkey 雇用(こよう): employment (long term), hire 雇う(やとう): employ, hire Kunyomi: やと.う Onyomi: コ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 雇う (やと.う)"
look back Details Story Dictionary 顧 look back Heisig's Employ . . . head. Koohii #1 I was EMPLOYED to give HEAD...when I look back, maybe that was not a wise career move. Koohii #2 The people we employ are always turning their heads to look back. They don´t want to be caught playing solitare on company time. Primitives look back, employ, door, one, ceiling, flag, turkey, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 顧みる(かえりみる): to look back, to turn around, to review Kunyomi: かえり.みる Onyomi: コ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 顧みる (かえり.みる)	look back 顧 画数21 1165 Details Story Dictionary 顧 look back Heisig's Employ . . . head. Koohii #1 I was EMPLOYED to give HEAD...when I look back, maybe that was not a wise career move. Koohii #2 The people we employ are always turning their heads to look back. They don´t want to be caught playing solitare on company time. Primitives look back, employ, door, one, ceiling, flag, turkey, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 顧みる(かえりみる): to look back, to turn around, to review Kunyomi: かえり.みる Onyomi: コ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 顧みる (かえり.みる)
disclose Details Story Dictionary 啓 disclose Heisig's Door . . . taskmaster . . . mouth. Koohii #1 Behind closed DOORS, the TASKMASTER tortures to get prisoners to open their MOUTHS and DISCLOSE information. Koohii #2 You signed a non-disclosure agreement with the taskmaster but you opened your mouth as soon as you got out the door! Primitives disclose, bouncer, door, one, ceiling, flag, taskmaster, mouth 拝啓(はいけい): Dear (so and so) Kunyomi: ひら.く、さと.す Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	disclose 啓 画数11 1166 Details Story Dictionary 啓 disclose Heisig's Door . . . taskmaster . . . mouth. Koohii #1 Behind closed DOORS, the TASKMASTER tortures to get prisoners to open their MOUTHS and DISCLOSE information. Koohii #2 You signed a non-disclosure agreement with the taskmaster but you opened your mouth as soon as you got out the door! Primitives disclose, bouncer, door, one, ceiling, flag, taskmaster, mouth 拝啓(はいけい): Dear (so and so) Kunyomi: ひら.く、さと.す Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 29 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
show Details Story Dictionary 示 show Heisig's Although the elements two and little are available for the using, it may be easier to remember this character as a picture of an altar. Something placed atop the altar is put on show for all to see. * As a primitive, this kanji means altar. At the left, the abbreviated form that this element takes is made by chopping the altar in half and leaving only one dot behind to represent the right side. The new appearance of this primitive form, ネ, should be kept distinct from that for cloak, identical except for the one final short stroke. Koohii #1 A boy made an altar, but he´s afraid to show it to God because he thinks it´s two little. Koohii #2 I´ll SHOW you mine if you show me yours!, she said. I did & she scoffed because it was TWO LITTLE. Primitives show, altar, show, two, small 暗示(あんじ): hint, suggestion 指示(しじ): indication, instruction, directions 提示(ていじ): presentation, exhibit, suggest, citation 展示(てんじ): exhibition, display 掲示(けいじ): notice, bulletin 示す(しめす): show, indicate, denote, point out Kunyomi: しめ.す Onyomi: ジ、シ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 示威 (しい), 示談 (じだん), 指示 (しじ), 示す (しめ.す)	show 示 画数5 1167 Details Story Dictionary 示 show Heisig's Although the elements two and little are available for the using, it may be easier to remember this character as a picture of an altar. Something placed atop the altar is put on show for all to see. * As a primitive, this kanji means altar. At the left, the abbreviated form that this element takes is made by chopping the altar in half and leaving only one dot behind to represent the right side. The new appearance of this primitive form, ネ, should be kept distinct from that for cloak, identical except for the one final short stroke. Koohii #1 A boy made an altar, but he´s afraid to show it to God because he thinks it´s two little. Koohii #2 I´ll SHOW you mine if you show me yours!, she said. I did & she scoffed because it was TWO LITTLE. Primitives show, altar, show, two, small 暗示(あんじ): hint, suggestion 指示(しじ): indication, instruction, directions 提示(ていじ): presentation, exhibit, suggest, citation 展示(てんじ): exhibition, display 掲示(けいじ): notice, bulletin 示す(しめす): show, indicate, denote, point out Kunyomi: しめ.す Onyomi: ジ、シ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 示威 (しい), 示談 (じだん), 指示 (しじ), 示す (しめ.す)
salutation Details Story Dictionary 礼 salutation Heisig's This key word refers to the polite bows and ceremonious forms of salutation so important in Japanese culture. Its elements: altar . . . fishhook. Koohii #1 Indy, my friend, you must be very careful! If you approach the altar and do not give the proper salutation a large fishhook will rip you away. Koohii #2 You should fish hook (bend/bow) your body before an altar as a form of salutation to God/gods. Primitives salute, salutation, altar, fishhook 無礼(ぶれい): impolite, rude 礼(れい): expression of gratitude 礼儀(れいぎ): manners, courtesy, etiquette お礼(おれい): courtesy Kunyomi: Onyomi: レイ、ライ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 礼儀 (れいぎ), 謝礼 (しゃれい), 無礼 (ぶれい)	salutation 礼 画数5 1168 Details Story Dictionary 礼 salutation Heisig's This key word refers to the polite bows and ceremonious forms of salutation so important in Japanese culture. Its elements: altar . . . fishhook. Koohii #1 Indy, my friend, you must be very careful! If you approach the altar and do not give the proper salutation a large fishhook will rip you away. Koohii #2 You should fish hook (bend/bow) your body before an altar as a form of salutation to God/gods. Primitives salute, salutation, altar, fishhook 無礼(ぶれい): impolite, rude 礼(れい): expression of gratitude 礼儀(れいぎ): manners, courtesy, etiquette お礼(おれい): courtesy Kunyomi: Onyomi: レイ、ライ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 礼儀 (れいぎ), 謝礼 (しゃれい), 無礼 (ぶれい)
auspicious Details Story Dictionary 祥 auspicious Heisig's Altar . . . sheep. Koohii #1 Bringing a sheep to sacrifice on the altar was a sign of an auspicious life. The poor could only afford a pigeon, the more auspicious an expensive sheep for an offering. Koohii #2 On this ewe-spicious occasion, you sacrifice a sheep at the altar. —— Sorry, but I really need more than generic altar sacrifices to connect keywords to stories. Sometimes an egregious pun is the only way. Primitives auspicious, altar, sheep Kunyomi: さいわ.い、きざ.し、よ.い、つまび.らか Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	auspicious 祥 画数10 1169 Details Story Dictionary 祥 auspicious Heisig's Altar . . . sheep. Koohii #1 Bringing a sheep to sacrifice on the altar was a sign of an auspicious life. The poor could only afford a pigeon, the more auspicious an expensive sheep for an offering. Koohii #2 On this ewe-spicious occasion, you sacrifice a sheep at the altar. —— Sorry, but I really need more than generic altar sacrifices to connect keywords to stories. Sometimes an egregious pun is the only way. Primitives auspicious, altar, sheep Kunyomi: さいわ.い、きざ.し、よ.い、つまび.らか Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
celebrate Details Story Dictionary 祝 celebrate My Story [ネ + older bro {兄}] We shouldnt celebrate the *ネcrophile's* birthday without his *older bro* Koohii #1 It´s a Bar Mitzvah. At the altar, the teenager is singing in his awful, mid-puberty voice. We´ll all celebrate when that part is over! Koohii #2 When Japanese people turn 20 they usually visit the altar at their local shrine and celebrate no longer being a teenager. Primitives celebrate, altar, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs 祝賀(しゅくが): celebration, congratulations 祝い(いわい): celebration, festival 祝う(いわう): congratulate, celebrate 祝日(しゅくじつ): national holiday お祝い(おいわい): celebration Kunyomi: いわ.う Onyomi: シュク、シュウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 祝賀 (しゅくが), 祝日 (しゅくじつ), 慶祝 (けいしゅく), 祝う (いわ.う)	celebrate 祝 画数9 1170 Details Story Dictionary 祝 celebrate My Story [ネ + older bro {兄}] We shouldnt celebrate the *ネcrophile's* birthday without his *older bro* Koohii #1 It´s a Bar Mitzvah. At the altar, the teenager is singing in his awful, mid-puberty voice. We´ll all celebrate when that part is over! Koohii #2 When Japanese people turn 20 they usually visit the altar at their local shrine and celebrate no longer being a teenager. Primitives celebrate, altar, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs 祝賀(しゅくが): celebration, congratulations 祝い(いわい): celebration, festival 祝う(いわう): congratulate, celebrate 祝日(しゅくじつ): national holiday お祝い(おいわい): celebration Kunyomi: いわ.う Onyomi: シュク、シュウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 祝賀 (しゅくが), 祝日 (しゅくじつ), 慶祝 (けいしゅく), 祝う (いわ.う)
blessing Details Story Dictionary 福 blessing Heisig's Altar . . . wealth. Koohii #1 This recalls the selling of indulgences in the history of the Church (As an aside, Protestantism began as a protest of this practice). Basically, one gave wealth to the altar (i.e. priest) and received a blessing. If you prefer a Jewish version, think of the donation (wealth) that is expected when you´re called to the ark (altar in the kanji) to give a blessing over the torah. Koohii #2 Put all your wealth on the church altar and receive one blessing. (You stand up out of your wheelchair or something.). Primitives blessing, altar, wealth, one, ceiling, mouth, rice field, brains 福(ふく): good fortune 福祉(ふくし): welfare, well-being 幸福(こうふく): happiness, blessedness Kunyomi: Onyomi: フク Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	blessing 福 画数13 1171 Details Story Dictionary 福 blessing Heisig's Altar . . . wealth. Koohii #1 This recalls the selling of indulgences in the history of the Church (As an aside, Protestantism began as a protest of this practice). Basically, one gave wealth to the altar (i.e. priest) and received a blessing. If you prefer a Jewish version, think of the donation (wealth) that is expected when you´re called to the ark (altar in the kanji) to give a blessing over the torah. Koohii #2 Put all your wealth on the church altar and receive one blessing. (You stand up out of your wheelchair or something.). Primitives blessing, altar, wealth, one, ceiling, mouth, rice field, brains 福(ふく): good fortune 福祉(ふくし): welfare, well-being 幸福(こうふく): happiness, blessedness Kunyomi: Onyomi: フク Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
welfare Details Story Dictionary 祉 welfare Heisig's Altar . . . footprint. Koohii #1 And in front of every altar, she stopped to pray for the welfare of the others. Koohii #2 Religious Republicans regularly go to the altar to pray for a stop to welfare. Primitives welfare, altar, stop, footprint 福祉(ふくし): welfare, well-being Kunyomi: Onyomi: シ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	welfare 祉 画数8 1172 Details Story Dictionary 祉 welfare Heisig's Altar . . . footprint. Koohii #1 And in front of every altar, she stopped to pray for the welfare of the others. Koohii #2 Religious Republicans regularly go to the altar to pray for a stop to welfare. Primitives welfare, altar, stop, footprint 福祉(ふくし): welfare, well-being Kunyomi: Onyomi: シ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
company Details Story Dictionary 社 company My Story [ネ + Jesus] The catholic church is a company full of *necorphiles* and *Jesus*-loving dudes Koohii #1 When you enter a Japanese company it´s like you join a cult... your workdesk becomes your altar and you worship the very soil the office is built on. Koohii #2 Some Japanese companies, including Toyota, have a Shinto shrine on their grounds to bring luck and prosperity to the company and its employees. Primitives company, altar, soil, dirt, ground 社交(しゃこう): social life, social intercourse 社宅(しゃたく): company owned house 出社(しゅっしゃ): arrival (in a country at work etc.) 社(やしろ): Shinto shrine 社会科学(しゃかいかがく): social science 社説(しゃせつ): editorial, leading article 商社(しょうしゃ): trading company, firm 入社(にゅうしゃ): entry to a company 社会(しゃかい): society 社長(しゃちょう): president 神社(じんじゃ): Shinto shrine 新聞社(しんぶんしゃ): newspaper office 会社(かいしゃ): company, corporation Kunyomi: やしろ Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 社 (やしろ)	company 社 画数7 1173 Details Story Dictionary 社 company My Story [ネ + Jesus] The catholic church is a company full of *necorphiles* and *Jesus*-loving dudes Koohii #1 When you enter a Japanese company it´s like you join a cult... your workdesk becomes your altar and you worship the very soil the office is built on. Koohii #2 Some Japanese companies, including Toyota, have a Shinto shrine on their grounds to bring luck and prosperity to the company and its employees. Primitives company, altar, soil, dirt, ground 社交(しゃこう): social life, social intercourse 社宅(しゃたく): company owned house 出社(しゅっしゃ): arrival (in a country at work etc.) 社(やしろ): Shinto shrine 社会科学(しゃかいかがく): social science 社説(しゃせつ): editorial, leading article 商社(しょうしゃ): trading company, firm 入社(にゅうしゃ): entry to a company 社会(しゃかい): society 社長(しゃちょう): president 神社(じんじゃ): Shinto shrine 新聞社(しんぶんしゃ): newspaper office 会社(かいしゃ): company, corporation Kunyomi: やしろ Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 社 (やしろ)
"inspection Details Story Dictionary 視 inspection Heisig's Altar . . . see. Koohii #1 The beaurocracy in Japan is such that even altars need to be inspection approved. A little man with glasses comes once a year to give the altar a ""visual once over"" as he calls it (perhaps checking for unauthorised symbology?). Koohii #2 [inspection; regard as; see; look at] Inspection: you 示 show (#1086) and someone else 見 see (#57). Primitives inspection, altar, see, telescope, eye, human legs 監視(かんし): observation, guarding, inspection, surveillance 近視(きんし): shortsightedness 視覚(しかく): sense of sight, vision 視察(しさつ): inspection, observation 視点(してん): opinion, point of view, visual point 視野(しや): field of vision, outlook 重視(じゅうし): importance, stress, serious consideration 無視(むし): disregard, ignore Kunyomi: み.る Onyomi: シ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"inspection 視 画数11 1174 Details Story Dictionary 視 inspection Heisig's Altar . . . see. Koohii #1 The beaurocracy in Japan is such that even altars need to be inspection approved. A little man with glasses comes once a year to give the altar a ""visual once over"" as he calls it (perhaps checking for unauthorised symbology?). Koohii #2 [inspection; regard as; see; look at] Inspection: you 示 show (#1086) and someone else 見 see (#57). Primitives inspection, altar, see, telescope, eye, human legs 監視(かんし): observation, guarding, inspection, surveillance 近視(きんし): shortsightedness 視覚(しかく): sense of sight, vision 視察(しさつ): inspection, observation 視点(してん): opinion, point of view, visual point 視野(しや): field of vision, outlook 重視(じゅうし): importance, stress, serious consideration 無視(むし): disregard, ignore Kunyomi: み.る Onyomi: シ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
Nara Details Story Dictionary 奈 Nara Heisig's We choose the city of Nara as the key word in this case because this kanji, frequently used in proper names, appears in Nara; and also because of Nara's famed religious monuments, which help us with the primitives: St. Bernard dog . . . altar. Koohii #1 It´s beautiful place, but the dark side of Nara is that they sacrifice St. Bernards on evil altars every night after the tourists leave! Koohii #2 Nara is just a big show for tourists. Primitives nara, large, St. Bernard, altar, show, two, small Kunyomi: いかん、からなし Onyomi: ナ、ナイ、ダイ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	Nara 奈 画数8 1175 Details Story Dictionary 奈 Nara Heisig's We choose the city of Nara as the key word in this case because this kanji, frequently used in proper names, appears in Nara; and also because of Nara's famed religious monuments, which help us with the primitives: St. Bernard dog . . . altar. Koohii #1 It´s beautiful place, but the dark side of Nara is that they sacrifice St. Bernards on evil altars every night after the tourists leave! Koohii #2 Nara is just a big show for tourists. Primitives nara, large, St. Bernard, altar, show, two, small Kunyomi: いかん、からなし Onyomi: ナ、ナイ、ダイ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
military officer Details Story Dictionary 尉 military officer My Story [Flag + Altar + glue] The *flag* and the *altar* were glued by the military officer Koohii #1 Of course it had to be the military officer´s idea to glue a national flag to the altar he´s stationed at. Koohii #2 Perhaps you have heard about Koizumis controversial visits at the Yasukuni war memorial shrine. It is the japanese flag waving above a small stone altar. A military officer keeps watch here night and day, to honor the dead war heroes, as if he is glued to the ground. Primitives military officer, flag, altar, show, two, small, glue 尉(じょう): jailer, old man, rank, company officer Kunyomi: Onyomi: イ、ジョウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	military officer 尉 画数11 1176 Details Story Dictionary 尉 military officer My Story [Flag + Altar + glue] The *flag* and the *altar* were glued by the military officer Koohii #1 Of course it had to be the military officer´s idea to glue a national flag to the altar he´s stationed at. Koohii #2 Perhaps you have heard about Koizumis controversial visits at the Yasukuni war memorial shrine. It is the japanese flag waving above a small stone altar. A military officer keeps watch here night and day, to honor the dead war heroes, as if he is glued to the ground. Primitives military officer, flag, altar, show, two, small, glue 尉(じょう): jailer, old man, rank, company officer Kunyomi: Onyomi: イ、ジョウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"consolation Details Story Dictionary 慰 consolation My Story [Military Officer {尉} + Heart] A *military officer* must offer consolation to the *hearts* of the families of his fallen men. Koohii #1 A military officer must offer consolation to the hearts of the families of his fallen men. Koohii #2 This Kanji appears in the word 慰安婦 いあんふ, which was what the infamous WW II ""comfort women"" were called in Japanese. The story goes something like this: As a way of providing consolation to battle-weary, heartsick military officers and soldiers, the Japanese set up comfort stations (brothels) for their servicemen. (Just to be clear: this is not an endorsement of the practice, just a way to remember the Kanji.). Primitives consolation, military officer, flag, altar, show, two, small, glue, heart 慰める(なぐさめる): comfort, console Kunyomi: なぐさ.める、なぐさ.む Onyomi: イ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 慰む (なぐさ.む), 慰める (なぐさ.める)"	"consolation 慰 画数15 1177 Details Story Dictionary 慰 consolation My Story [Military Officer {尉} + Heart] A *military officer* must offer consolation to the *hearts* of the families of his fallen men. Koohii #1 A military officer must offer consolation to the hearts of the families of his fallen men. Koohii #2 This Kanji appears in the word 慰安婦 いあんふ, which was what the infamous WW II ""comfort women"" were called in Japanese. The story goes something like this: As a way of providing consolation to battle-weary, heartsick military officers and soldiers, the Japanese set up comfort stations (brothels) for their servicemen. (Just to be clear: this is not an endorsement of the practice, just a way to remember the Kanji.). Primitives consolation, military officer, flag, altar, show, two, small, glue, heart 慰める(なぐさめる): comfort, console Kunyomi: なぐさ.める、なぐさ.む Onyomi: イ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 慰む (なぐさ.む), 慰める (なぐさ.める)"
goodwill Details Story Dictionary 款 goodwill Heisig's Samurai . . . altar . . . yawning. Koohii #1 Samuari, altar, yawn The samurai is on the altar, preaching about goodwill. The audience just yawns however, they want to see the man fight! Koohii #2 For better remembering the placement of the eleements: The samurai kneels before the altar at his wedding ceremony, when some of the attendants lets out a big yawn. He is a kind man and for the day his goodwill benefits everyone. No beheadings. Primitives goodwill, samurai, altar, show, two, small, lack, yawn Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	goodwill 款 画数12 1178 Details Story Dictionary 款 goodwill Heisig's Samurai . . . altar . . . yawning. Koohii #1 Samuari, altar, yawn The samurai is on the altar, preaching about goodwill. The audience just yawns however, they want to see the man fight! Koohii #2 For better remembering the placement of the eleements: The samurai kneels before the altar at his wedding ceremony, when some of the attendants lets out a big yawn. He is a kind man and for the day his goodwill benefits everyone. No beheadings. Primitives goodwill, samurai, altar, show, two, small, lack, yawn Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"prohibition Details Story Dictionary 禁 prohibition Heisig's Grove . . . altar. Koohii #1 Similar to radical tyro´s story. If you live in Japan, your main exposure to this kanji is probably ""no smoking"" signs. So I imagine the government enacting a prohibition of tobacco, and burning whole groves of tobacco plants on an altar (the altar of public health, or self-righteousness, if you will). Koohii #2 Hidden in a grove was a church with a secret altar that was stocked full of prohibited alcohol during the American prohibition period of 1920-1933. A local registered himself as a mininster of this altar so he could stock prohibited alcohol ""for sacremental purposes"" and share it with his kin (きん). Primitives prohibition, grove, tree, wood, altar, show, two, small, tree2, wood2 禁じる(きんじる): to prohibit 禁ずる(きんずる): to forbid, to suppress 禁物(きんもつ): taboo, forbidden thing 禁煙(きんえん): No Smoking! 禁止(きんし): prohibition, ban Kunyomi: Onyomi: キン Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"prohibition 禁 画数13 1179 Details Story Dictionary 禁 prohibition Heisig's Grove . . . altar. Koohii #1 Similar to radical tyro´s story. If you live in Japan, your main exposure to this kanji is probably ""no smoking"" signs. So I imagine the government enacting a prohibition of tobacco, and burning whole groves of tobacco plants on an altar (the altar of public health, or self-righteousness, if you will). Koohii #2 Hidden in a grove was a church with a secret altar that was stocked full of prohibited alcohol during the American prohibition period of 1920-1933. A local registered himself as a mininster of this altar so he could stock prohibited alcohol ""for sacremental purposes"" and share it with his kin (きん). Primitives prohibition, grove, tree, wood, altar, show, two, small, tree2, wood2 禁じる(きんじる): to prohibit 禁ずる(きんずる): to forbid, to suppress 禁物(きんもつ): taboo, forbidden thing 禁煙(きんえん): No Smoking! 禁止(きんし): prohibition, ban Kunyomi: Onyomi: キン Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
collar Details Story Dictionary 襟 collar Heisig's Cloak . . . prohibition. Koohii #1 A collar is the part of your cloak that, if tightened too tight, will prohibit breathing. Koohii #2 Collars are prohibited from wizarding cloaks. Blood purists say they´re too muggle. Primitives collar, cloak, prohibition, grove, tree, wood, altar, show, two, small, tree2, wood2 襟(えり): neck, collar, lapel, neckband Kunyomi: えり Onyomi: キン Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 襟 (えり)	collar 襟 画数18 1180 Details Story Dictionary 襟 collar Heisig's Cloak . . . prohibition. Koohii #1 A collar is the part of your cloak that, if tightened too tight, will prohibit breathing. Koohii #2 Collars are prohibited from wizarding cloaks. Blood purists say they´re too muggle. Primitives collar, cloak, prohibition, grove, tree, wood, altar, show, two, small, tree2, wood2 襟(えり): neck, collar, lapel, neckband Kunyomi: えり Onyomi: キン Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 襟 (えり)
religion Details Story Dictionary 宗 religion My Story you can discover a Japanese family religion by observing their *crowned altar* Koohii #1 I never really did figure out what religion my host family was - all I knew was that they kept an altar in their home. Koohii #2 All the RELIGIONS have their own temples, which are houses where they place their altars. Primitives religion, house, altar, show, two, small 宗教(しゅうきょう): religion Kunyomi: むね Onyomi: シュウ、ソウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 宗教 (しゅうきょう), 宗派 (しゅうは), 改宗 (かいしゅう)	religion 宗 画数8 1181 Details Story Dictionary 宗 religion My Story you can discover a Japanese family religion by observing their *crowned altar* Koohii #1 I never really did figure out what religion my host family was - all I knew was that they kept an altar in their home. Koohii #2 All the RELIGIONS have their own temples, which are houses where they place their altars. Primitives religion, house, altar, show, two, small 宗教(しゅうきょう): religion Kunyomi: むね Onyomi: シュウ、ソウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 宗教 (しゅうきょう), 宗派 (しゅうは), 改宗 (かいしゅう)
adore Details Story Dictionary 崇 adore Heisig's Mountain . . . religion. Koohii #1 In ancient Greece, it was the religion of the time to adore the gods who live on Mount Olympus. Koohii #2 I would adore the religious people if they just went and threw themselves off a mountain top. Primitives adore, mountain, religion, house, altar, show, two, small 崇拝(すうはい): worship, adoration, admiration, cult Kunyomi: あが.める Onyomi: スウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	adore 崇 画数11 1182 Details Story Dictionary 崇 adore Heisig's Mountain . . . religion. Koohii #1 In ancient Greece, it was the religion of the time to adore the gods who live on Mount Olympus. Koohii #2 I would adore the religious people if they just went and threw themselves off a mountain top. Primitives adore, mountain, religion, house, altar, show, two, small 崇拝(すうはい): worship, adoration, admiration, cult Kunyomi: あが.める Onyomi: スウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
ritual Details Story Dictionary 祭 ritual Heisig's Flesh . . . crotch . . . altar. Note how the second element is cut short, giving a tent-like effect to the character. Koohii #1 A ritual such as a circumcision: a small piece of flesh from the crotch is left on the altar. Koohii #2 There are many famous penis matsuris(festivals) in Japan. The rituals of these festivals involve placing the flesh of the crotch on an altar. Primitives ritual, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, crotch, altar, show, two, small 祭日(さいじつ): national holiday, festival day 祭(まつり): festival, feast 祭る(まつる): deify, enshrine お祭り(おまつり): festival Kunyomi: まつ.る、まつ.り、まつり Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 祭り (まつ.り), 祭る (まつ.る)	ritual 祭 画数11 1183 Details Story Dictionary 祭 ritual Heisig's Flesh . . . crotch . . . altar. Note how the second element is cut short, giving a tent-like effect to the character. Koohii #1 A ritual such as a circumcision: a small piece of flesh from the crotch is left on the altar. Koohii #2 There are many famous penis matsuris(festivals) in Japan. The rituals of these festivals involve placing the flesh of the crotch on an altar. Primitives ritual, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, crotch, altar, show, two, small 祭日(さいじつ): national holiday, festival day 祭(まつり): festival, feast 祭る(まつる): deify, enshrine お祭り(おまつり): festival Kunyomi: まつ.る、まつ.り、まつり Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 祭り (まつ.り), 祭る (まつ.る)
"guess Details Story Dictionary 察 guess Heisig's ""Guess"" here has the sense of a measured conjecture. Its elements: house . . . ritual. Koohii #1 I have an informed guess about whose house the dark rituals are performet at. Koohii #2 It´s anyone´s guess who´s house she will wake up in the morning after the festival (祭-matsuri)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　サツ　警察　けいさつ(police)…　Pure Group:　擦1104. Primitives guess, house, ritual, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, crotch, altar, show, two, small 察する(さっする): to guess, to sense, to presume, to judge, to sympathize with 視察(しさつ): inspection, observation 観察(かんさつ): observation, survey 診察(しんさつ): medical examination 警察(けいさつ): police Kunyomi: Onyomi: サツ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"guess 察 画数14 1184 Details Story Dictionary 察 guess Heisig's ""Guess"" here has the sense of a measured conjecture. Its elements: house . . . ritual. Koohii #1 I have an informed guess about whose house the dark rituals are performet at. Koohii #2 It´s anyone´s guess who´s house she will wake up in the morning after the festival (祭-matsuri)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　サツ　警察　けいさつ(police)…　Pure Group:　擦1104. Primitives guess, house, ritual, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, crotch, altar, show, two, small 察する(さっする): to guess, to sense, to presume, to judge, to sympathize with 視察(しさつ): inspection, observation 観察(かんさつ): observation, survey 診察(しんさつ): medical examination 警察(けいさつ): police Kunyomi: Onyomi: サツ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
grate Details Story Dictionary 擦 grate Heisig's Fingers . . . guess. Koohii #1 If you mis-guess the cheese you´ll grate your fingers on the cheese-grater (happens to me all the time). Koohii #2 Ouch! Guess how many fingers I just grated in the grater? (Edit: OR: Ouch! Guess what I just grated in the grater? -- my finger!). Primitives grate, finger, fingers, guess, house, ritual, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, crotch, altar, show, two, small 擦る(かする): to touch lightly, to take a percentage (from) 擦れ違い(すれちがい): chance encounter 擦れる(すれる): to rub, to chafe, to wear, to become sophisticated 擦る(こする): rub, scrub 摩擦(まさつ): friction, rubbing, rubdown, chafe Kunyomi: す.る、す.れる、-ず.れ、こす.る、こす.れる Onyomi: サツ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 擦る (す.る), 擦れる (す.れる)	grate 擦 画数17 1185 Details Story Dictionary 擦 grate Heisig's Fingers . . . guess. Koohii #1 If you mis-guess the cheese you´ll grate your fingers on the cheese-grater (happens to me all the time). Koohii #2 Ouch! Guess how many fingers I just grated in the grater? (Edit: OR: Ouch! Guess what I just grated in the grater? -- my finger!). Primitives grate, finger, fingers, guess, house, ritual, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, crotch, altar, show, two, small 擦る(かする): to touch lightly, to take a percentage (from) 擦れ違い(すれちがい): chance encounter 擦れる(すれる): to rub, to chafe, to wear, to become sophisticated 擦る(こする): rub, scrub 摩擦(まさつ): friction, rubbing, rubdown, chafe Kunyomi: す.る、す.れる、-ず.れ、こす.る、こす.れる Onyomi: サツ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 擦る (す.る), 擦れる (す.れる)
"wherefore Details Story Dictionary 由 wherefore Heisig's The ""wherefore"" of this kanji explains the reason or origin of a thing. It does this graphically by depicting a seed in a rice field sending up a single sprout, which is the whole why and wherefore of the seed's falling in the earth and dying. (When the flower appears, you will recall from frame 249, we have a full seedling.) * As a primitive, in conformity to the explanation above, this kanji will be taken to mean shoot or sprout. Koohii #1 Wherefore art thou, Sprouteo? (Juliet has fallen in love with a brussel sprout) (OR: A brussel sprout has fallen from Juliet´s dinner plate and rolled off). Koohii #2 Cogito ergo sum. Wherefore is a bad choice here for two reasons. For one, it´s often mistranslated as ""where"" when in fact it´s an urge to know a cause or reason; and two, because this kanji represents the reason, not the urge. [A thought sprouts from my brain. I think, therefore I am.]. Primitives wherefore, sprout, shoot 経由(けいゆ): go by the way, via 不自由(ふじゆう): discomfort, disability, inconvenience, destitution 自由(じゆう): freedom 理由(りゆう): reason Kunyomi: よし、よ.る Onyomi: ユ、ユウ、ユイ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 由来 (ゆらい), 経由 (けいゆ), 自由 (じゆう), 理由 (りゆう), 事由 (じゆう), 由 (よし)"	"wherefore 由 画数5 1186 Details Story Dictionary 由 wherefore Heisig's The ""wherefore"" of this kanji explains the reason or origin of a thing. It does this graphically by depicting a seed in a rice field sending up a single sprout, which is the whole why and wherefore of the seed's falling in the earth and dying. (When the flower appears, you will recall from frame 249, we have a full seedling.) * As a primitive, in conformity to the explanation above, this kanji will be taken to mean shoot or sprout. Koohii #1 Wherefore art thou, Sprouteo? (Juliet has fallen in love with a brussel sprout) (OR: A brussel sprout has fallen from Juliet´s dinner plate and rolled off). Koohii #2 Cogito ergo sum. Wherefore is a bad choice here for two reasons. For one, it´s often mistranslated as ""where"" when in fact it´s an urge to know a cause or reason; and two, because this kanji represents the reason, not the urge. [A thought sprouts from my brain. I think, therefore I am.]. Primitives wherefore, sprout, shoot 経由(けいゆ): go by the way, via 不自由(ふじゆう): discomfort, disability, inconvenience, destitution 自由(じゆう): freedom 理由(りゆう): reason Kunyomi: よし、よ.る Onyomi: ユ、ユウ、ユイ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 由来 (ゆらい), 経由 (けいゆ), 自由 (じゆう), 理由 (りゆう), 事由 (じゆう), 由 (よし)"
pluck Details Story Dictionary 抽 pluck Heisig's Fingers . . . sprout. Koohii #1 [When I see the word pluck, I think eyebrows, not vegetables. So, to avoid confusing with pick (#733):] Each time this singular, long, wiry black hair starts to sprout out of my chin again, I pluck it with my fingers. Koohii #2 If you pluck your fingers, new ones will sprout in their place. (try it ;). Primitives pluck, finger, fingers, sprout, shoot 抽選(ちゅうせん): lottery, raffle, drawing (of lots) 抽象(ちゅうしょう): abstract Kunyomi: ひき- Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	pluck 抽 画数8 1187 Details Story Dictionary 抽 pluck Heisig's Fingers . . . sprout. Koohii #1 [When I see the word pluck, I think eyebrows, not vegetables. So, to avoid confusing with pick (#733):] Each time this singular, long, wiry black hair starts to sprout out of my chin again, I pluck it with my fingers. Koohii #2 If you pluck your fingers, new ones will sprout in their place. (try it ;). Primitives pluck, finger, fingers, sprout, shoot 抽選(ちゅうせん): lottery, raffle, drawing (of lots) 抽象(ちゅうしょう): abstract Kunyomi: ひき- Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
oil Details Story Dictionary 油 oil Heisig's Water . . . sprout. Koohii #1 The liquid oil that sprouts from an oil field. Koohii #2 In a rather surprising scientific breakthrough, genetically modified Brussel sprouts (which have become extremely absorbative), are thrown in the water to suck up oil spills. Primitives oil, water, water droplets, water pistol, sprout, shoot 油絵(あぶらえ): oil painting 原油(げんゆ): crude oil 油(あぶら): oil 醤油(しょうゆ): soy sauce 石油(せきゆ): oil, petroleum, kerosene 灯油(とうゆ): lamp oil, kerosene 油断(ゆだん): negligence, unpreparedness Kunyomi: あぶら Onyomi: ユ、ユウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 油 (あぶら)	oil 油 画数8 1188 Details Story Dictionary 油 oil Heisig's Water . . . sprout. Koohii #1 The liquid oil that sprouts from an oil field. Koohii #2 In a rather surprising scientific breakthrough, genetically modified Brussel sprouts (which have become extremely absorbative), are thrown in the water to suck up oil spills. Primitives oil, water, water droplets, water pistol, sprout, shoot 油絵(あぶらえ): oil painting 原油(げんゆ): crude oil 油(あぶら): oil 醤油(しょうゆ): soy sauce 石油(せきゆ): oil, petroleum, kerosene 灯油(とうゆ): lamp oil, kerosene 油断(ゆだん): negligence, unpreparedness Kunyomi: あぶら Onyomi: ユ、ユウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 油 (あぶら)
"sleeve Details Story Dictionary 袖 sleeve Heisig's Cloak . . . sprout. Koohii #1 Imagine some magic cloak, that when worn, has little green sprouts appearing on the sides that grow into sleeves. Koohii #2 The bad magician says, ""As you can see, there´s nothing up my sleeves!"" Then he trips over his cloak and brussel sprouts fall everywhere. Primitives sleeve, cloak, sprout, shoot 袖(そで): sleeve Kunyomi: そで Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 袖 (そで)"	"sleeve 袖 画数10 1189 Details Story Dictionary 袖 sleeve Heisig's Cloak . . . sprout. Koohii #1 Imagine some magic cloak, that when worn, has little green sprouts appearing on the sides that grow into sleeves. Koohii #2 The bad magician says, ""As you can see, there´s nothing up my sleeves!"" Then he trips over his cloak and brussel sprouts fall everywhere. Primitives sleeve, cloak, sprout, shoot 袖(そで): sleeve Kunyomi: そで Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 袖 (そで)"
"mid-air / space (outer space) Details Story Dictionary 宙 mid-air / space (outer space) My Story [Crown + freedom/reason {由}] In space, everyone can *crown* themselves *freely* as King of Space Koohii #1 Jack´s beanstalk sprouted up, pushed at the roof and lifted the house so that it hangs in mid-air suspended on the SPROUT. Koohii #2 Hahaha, the image of walking into a house and finding a sea of brussel sprouts floating mid-air is enough for me to remember. Maybe there´s a magician in the kitchen shouting a reassuring ""Don´t mind the sprouts!"". Primitives mid-air, house, sprout, shoot 宙返り(ちゅうがえり): somersault, looping-the-loop 宇宙(うちゅう): universe, cosmos, space Kunyomi: Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"mid-air / space (outer space) 宙 画数8 1190 Details Story Dictionary 宙 mid-air / space (outer space) My Story [Crown + freedom/reason {由}] In space, everyone can *crown* themselves *freely* as King of Space Koohii #1 Jack´s beanstalk sprouted up, pushed at the roof and lifted the house so that it hangs in mid-air suspended on the SPROUT. Koohii #2 Hahaha, the image of walking into a house and finding a sea of brussel sprouts floating mid-air is enough for me to remember. Maybe there´s a magician in the kitchen shouting a reassuring ""Don´t mind the sprouts!"". Primitives mid-air, house, sprout, shoot 宙返り(ちゅうがえり): somersault, looping-the-loop 宇宙(うちゅう): universe, cosmos, space Kunyomi: Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
deliver Details Story Dictionary 届 deliver Heisig's Flag . . . sprout. Koohii #1 In the US, when the mail is delivered, a flag sprouts up on your mailbox. (We don´t have that in Australia.). Koohii #2 A Japanese man ordered some Brussel sprouts from Belgium. They are delivered with a little Belgian flag (as seen sometimes in shops, little flags indicating the provenance and authenticity of the food like cheese and meat). Primitives deliver, flag, sprout, shoot 届け(とどけ): report, notification, registration 届く(とどく): reach 届ける(とどける): deliver Kunyomi: とど.ける、-とど.け、とど.く Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 届く (とど.く), 届ける (とど.ける)	deliver 届 画数8 1191 Details Story Dictionary 届 deliver Heisig's Flag . . . sprout. Koohii #1 In the US, when the mail is delivered, a flag sprouts up on your mailbox. (We don´t have that in Australia.). Koohii #2 A Japanese man ordered some Brussel sprouts from Belgium. They are delivered with a little Belgian flag (as seen sometimes in shops, little flags indicating the provenance and authenticity of the food like cheese and meat). Primitives deliver, flag, sprout, shoot 届け(とどけ): report, notification, registration 届く(とどく): reach 届ける(とどける): deliver Kunyomi: とど.ける、-とど.け、とど.く Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 届く (とど.く), 届ける (とど.ける)
flute Details Story Dictionary 笛 flute Heisig's Bamboo . . . sprout. Koohii #1 Flute is made of bamboo sprout. Koohii #2 You pick up your bamboo flute, and recoil in shock as out comes not the dulcet melody you had hoped to play, but rather a Brussels sprout! You play again, and again a Brussels sprout. A bamboo flute that plays sprouts! Fabulous! Puts that golden egg laying goose in its place. Primitives flute, bamboo, sprout, shoot 笛(ふえ): flute Kunyomi: ふえ Onyomi: テキ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 笛 (ふえ)	flute 笛 画数11 1192 Details Story Dictionary 笛 flute Heisig's Bamboo . . . sprout. Koohii #1 Flute is made of bamboo sprout. Koohii #2 You pick up your bamboo flute, and recoil in shock as out comes not the dulcet melody you had hoped to play, but rather a Brussels sprout! You play again, and again a Brussels sprout. A bamboo flute that plays sprouts! Fabulous! Puts that golden egg laying goose in its place. Primitives flute, bamboo, sprout, shoot 笛(ふえ): flute Kunyomi: ふえ Onyomi: テキ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 笛 (ふえ)
axis Details Story Dictionary 軸 axis Heisig's Car . . . shoot. Koohii #1 The Germans manufactured so many cars during World War II that it was almost as if they were sprouting from the factories of the Axis. Koohii #2 An absurd image, but what the heck - worked for me. Imagine a car going across a plain at a fast speed. Suddenly a single sprout (the only one to be seen) gets stuck to the car´s wheels, causing the car to fly around its axis. Primitives axis, car, sprout, shoot 軸(じく): axis, stem, shaft, axle Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジク Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	axis 軸 画数12 1193 Details Story Dictionary 軸 axis Heisig's Car . . . shoot. Koohii #1 The Germans manufactured so many cars during World War II that it was almost as if they were sprouting from the factories of the Axis. Koohii #2 An absurd image, but what the heck - worked for me. Imagine a car going across a plain at a fast speed. Suddenly a single sprout (the only one to be seen) gets stuck to the car´s wheels, causing the car to fly around its axis. Primitives axis, car, sprout, shoot 軸(じく): axis, stem, shaft, axle Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジク Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"armor Details Story Dictionary 甲 armor Heisig's This kanji reverses the element for sprout, giving the image of roots being sent down into the earth by a seed planted in the rice field. From there you must invent a connection to the keyword, armor. * The primitive meaning is roots. Important to that word is the image of ""pushing downwards,"" as roots do. Koohii #1 Funny.. this appeared to me as a pictograph of a samurai´s armor. Then I looked up images of the samurai armor and it is not even remotely similar. Then I realised it looks in fact like the belly of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, which I somehow associated with the samurai armor because of the ""turtle samurai"" that appeared earlier. Fits me. The bit that pokes down is to protect the genitals, I guess. Koohii #2 It looks like a bird´s eye view of a tank (modern armor). Primitives armour, armor, roots 甲(きのえ): 1st in rank, first sign of the Chinese calendar, shell, instep, grade A Kunyomi: きのえ Onyomi: コウ、カン、カ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 甲乙 (こうおつ), 装甲車 (そうこうしゃ)"	"armor 甲 画数5 1194 Details Story Dictionary 甲 armor Heisig's This kanji reverses the element for sprout, giving the image of roots being sent down into the earth by a seed planted in the rice field. From there you must invent a connection to the keyword, armor. * The primitive meaning is roots. Important to that word is the image of ""pushing downwards,"" as roots do. Koohii #1 Funny.. this appeared to me as a pictograph of a samurai´s armor. Then I looked up images of the samurai armor and it is not even remotely similar. Then I realised it looks in fact like the belly of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, which I somehow associated with the samurai armor because of the ""turtle samurai"" that appeared earlier. Fits me. The bit that pokes down is to protect the genitals, I guess. Koohii #2 It looks like a bird´s eye view of a tank (modern armor). Primitives armour, armor, roots 甲(きのえ): 1st in rank, first sign of the Chinese calendar, shell, instep, grade A Kunyomi: きのえ Onyomi: コウ、カン、カ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 甲乙 (こうおつ), 装甲車 (そうこうしゃ)"
push Details Story Dictionary 押 push My Story [ #push# = *My Nigga MO* + *turtle shell*] = *My Nigga MO* kept pushing the damn *turtle shell*, like some button. [ push = fingers + roots ]　Moe, using his fingers, pushed the root down Koohii #1 Push the roots down, instead of plucking the seedling. Koohii #2 Use your fingers to make sure the roots of your plant are deep underground by pushing them down, down, down. Primitives push, finger, fingers, armour, armor, roots 押さえる(おさえる): to stop, to restrain, to seize, to repress, to suppress, to press down 押し込む(おしこむ): to push into, to crowd into 押し寄せる(おしよせる): to push aside, to advance on 押える(おさえる): stop, restrain, seize, repress, suppress, press down 押し入れ(おしいれ): closet 押す(おす): push, press, stamp (e.g. a passport) Kunyomi: お.す、お.し-、お.っ-、お.さえる、おさ.える Onyomi: オウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 押さえる (お.さえる), 押す (お.す)	push 押 画数8 1195 Details Story Dictionary 押 push My Story [ #push# = *My Nigga MO* + *turtle shell*] = *My Nigga MO* kept pushing the damn *turtle shell*, like some button. [ push = fingers + roots ]　Moe, using his fingers, pushed the root down Koohii #1 Push the roots down, instead of plucking the seedling. Koohii #2 Use your fingers to make sure the roots of your plant are deep underground by pushing them down, down, down. Primitives push, finger, fingers, armour, armor, roots 押さえる(おさえる): to stop, to restrain, to seize, to repress, to suppress, to press down 押し込む(おしこむ): to push into, to crowd into 押し寄せる(おしよせる): to push aside, to advance on 押える(おさえる): stop, restrain, seize, repress, suppress, press down 押し入れ(おしいれ): closet 押す(おす): push, press, stamp (e.g. a passport) Kunyomi: お.す、お.し-、お.っ-、お.さえる、おさ.える Onyomi: オウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 押さえる (お.さえる), 押す (お.す)
headland Details Story Dictionary 岬 headland Heisig's Like the cape (Frame 164) and the promontory (Frame 840), the headland refers to a jut of land. Its elements: mountain . . . roots. Koohii #1 A headland is a mountain that is firmly rooted despite being surrounded on 3 sides by water. (Just like your head is a mountain surrounded by air on 3 sides, a headland!). Koohii #2 Headlands are natural forts; in fact, once men build castles on them, they become armoured mountains. (Gibralter, for example, is basically an armoured mountain). Primitives headland, mountain, armour, armor, roots 岬(みさき): cape (on coast) Kunyomi: みさき Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 岬 (みさき)	headland 岬 画数8 1196 Details Story Dictionary 岬 headland Heisig's Like the cape (Frame 164) and the promontory (Frame 840), the headland refers to a jut of land. Its elements: mountain . . . roots. Koohii #1 A headland is a mountain that is firmly rooted despite being surrounded on 3 sides by water. (Just like your head is a mountain surrounded by air on 3 sides, a headland!). Koohii #2 Headlands are natural forts; in fact, once men build castles on them, they become armoured mountains. (Gibralter, for example, is basically an armoured mountain). Primitives headland, mountain, armour, armor, roots 岬(みさき): cape (on coast) Kunyomi: みさき Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 岬 (みさき)
insert Details Story Dictionary 挿 insert Heisig's Fingers . . . thousand . . . roots. Observe how the writing order does not follow the elements in order, because the final stroke is used for two different elements. Koohii #1 A rice farmer´s delicate fingers have inserted 1,000 rooted seedlings into his field. Koohii #2 Imagine a crazy japanese hentai: multiple fingers and thousand of root-like tentacles are inserting themselves in... well, I think you can fill the rest. Primitives insert, finger, fingers, thousand, armour, armor, roots 挿す(さす): to insert, put in, graft Kunyomi: さ.す、はさ.む Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 挿す (さ.す)	insert 挿 画数10 1197 Details Story Dictionary 挿 insert Heisig's Fingers . . . thousand . . . roots. Observe how the writing order does not follow the elements in order, because the final stroke is used for two different elements. Koohii #1 A rice farmer´s delicate fingers have inserted 1,000 rooted seedlings into his field. Koohii #2 Imagine a crazy japanese hentai: multiple fingers and thousand of root-like tentacles are inserting themselves in... well, I think you can fill the rest. Primitives insert, finger, fingers, thousand, armour, armor, roots 挿す(さす): to insert, put in, graft Kunyomi: さ.す、はさ.む Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 挿す (さ.す)
"speaketh Details Story Dictionary 申 speaketh Heisig's The olde English is used here to indicate a humble form of the third person singular of the verb ""to speak."" It is written by a tongue wagging in the mouth with a walking stick rammed through it and coming out at both ends. * While this kanji has obvious affinities to the ""seed"" group, it also happens to be the zodiacal sign of the monkey (the one who speaketh no evil, among other things). We shall therefore take monkey as its primitive meaning. Koohii #1 I imagine thomeone who can not pronounth the ""s"" and speaketh like thith becauth they have a cane in their mouth. Koohii #2 I had persistent trouble confusing this one with 曰 sayeth (#578). The way I keep it sorted out is that this one is used in ""moshi moshi"" when answering the phone, similar to the way an American would say ""hello, this is X speaking."". Primitives speaketh, monkey, sun, day, stick 申告(しんこく): report, statement, filing a return, notification 申し入れる(もうしいれる): to propose, to suggest 申し込み(もうしこみ): application, entry, request, subscription, offer, proposal, overture, challenge 申出(もうしで): proposal, request, claim, report, notice 申し出る(もうしでる): to report to, to tell, to suggest, to submit, to request, to make an offer, to come forward with information 申し分(もうしぶん): objection, shortcomings 申請(しんせい): application, request, petition 申し込む(もうしこむ): apply for, propose, offer, challenge, request 申し訳(もうしわけ): apology, excuse 申し訳ない(もうしわけない): inexcusable 申し上げる(もうしあげる): say (polite) 申す(もうす): say (polite) Kunyomi: もう.す、もう.し-、さる Onyomi: シン Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 申す (もう.す)"	"speaketh 申 画数5 1198 Details Story Dictionary 申 speaketh Heisig's The olde English is used here to indicate a humble form of the third person singular of the verb ""to speak."" It is written by a tongue wagging in the mouth with a walking stick rammed through it and coming out at both ends. * While this kanji has obvious affinities to the ""seed"" group, it also happens to be the zodiacal sign of the monkey (the one who speaketh no evil, among other things). We shall therefore take monkey as its primitive meaning. Koohii #1 I imagine thomeone who can not pronounth the ""s"" and speaketh like thith becauth they have a cane in their mouth. Koohii #2 I had persistent trouble confusing this one with 曰 sayeth (#578). The way I keep it sorted out is that this one is used in ""moshi moshi"" when answering the phone, similar to the way an American would say ""hello, this is X speaking."". Primitives speaketh, monkey, sun, day, stick 申告(しんこく): report, statement, filing a return, notification 申し入れる(もうしいれる): to propose, to suggest 申し込み(もうしこみ): application, entry, request, subscription, offer, proposal, overture, challenge 申出(もうしで): proposal, request, claim, report, notice 申し出る(もうしでる): to report to, to tell, to suggest, to submit, to request, to make an offer, to come forward with information 申し分(もうしぶん): objection, shortcomings 申請(しんせい): application, request, petition 申し込む(もうしこむ): apply for, propose, offer, challenge, request 申し訳(もうしわけ): apology, excuse 申し訳ない(もうしわけない): inexcusable 申し上げる(もうしあげる): say (polite) 申す(もうす): say (polite) Kunyomi: もう.す、もう.し-、さる Onyomi: シン Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 申す (もう.す)"
expand Details Story Dictionary 伸 expand Heisig's Person . . . monkey. Koohii #1 Here we see Mr. T. expanding his gang with some trained fighter monkeys. Koohii #2 A person expands into an ape man. I swear this is the only time I'll use Dragon Ball, but think of Goku expanding into that Saiyajin giant ape beast. Primitives expand, person, monkey, sun, day, stick 伸ばす(のばす): to lengthen, to stretch, to reach out, to postpone, to prolong, to extend, to grow (beard) 伸びる(のびる): to stretch, to extend, to make progress, to grow (beard body height), to grow stale (soba), to lengthen, to spread, to be postponed, to be straightened, to be flattened, to be smoothed, to be exhausted Kunyomi: の.びる、の.ばす、の.べる、の.す Onyomi: シン Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 伸ばす (の.ばす), 伸びる (の.びる)	expand 伸 画数7 1199 Details Story Dictionary 伸 expand Heisig's Person . . . monkey. Koohii #1 Here we see Mr. T. expanding his gang with some trained fighter monkeys. Koohii #2 A person expands into an ape man. I swear this is the only time I'll use Dragon Ball, but think of Goku expanding into that Saiyajin giant ape beast. Primitives expand, person, monkey, sun, day, stick 伸ばす(のばす): to lengthen, to stretch, to reach out, to postpone, to prolong, to extend, to grow (beard) 伸びる(のびる): to stretch, to extend, to make progress, to grow (beard body height), to grow stale (soba), to lengthen, to spread, to be postponed, to be straightened, to be flattened, to be smoothed, to be exhausted Kunyomi: の.びる、の.ばす、の.べる、の.す Onyomi: シン Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 伸ばす (の.ばす), 伸びる (の.びる)
"gods Details Story Dictionary 神 gods Heisig's Altar . . . monkey. Koohii #1 The Gods are gathered around debating Zeus´ latest purchase for Mount Olympus. A huge and extremely kitsch gilded altar in the shape of giant ""speak no evil"" monkey. Hera decides she will never let him go shopping alone again . Koohii #2 Hinduism has many gods, not just one God. One of the most famous of these gods is Hanuman the monkey. Many altars are dedicated to him. Primitives gods, altar, monkey, sun, day, stick 神聖(しんせい): holiness, sacredness, dignity 神殿(しんでん): temple, sacred place 神秘(しんぴ): mystery 神(かみ): god 神様(かみさま): god 神経(しんけい): nerve, sensitivity 神話(しんわ): myth, legend 精神(せいしん): mind, soul, heart, spirit, intention 神社(じんじゃ): Shinto shrine Kunyomi: かみ、かん-、こう- Onyomi: シン、ジン Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 神聖 (しんせい), 神経 (しんけい), 精神 (せいしん), 神 (かみ)"	"gods 神 画数9 1200 Details Story Dictionary 神 gods Heisig's Altar . . . monkey. Koohii #1 The Gods are gathered around debating Zeus´ latest purchase for Mount Olympus. A huge and extremely kitsch gilded altar in the shape of giant ""speak no evil"" monkey. Hera decides she will never let him go shopping alone again . Koohii #2 Hinduism has many gods, not just one God. One of the most famous of these gods is Hanuman the monkey. Many altars are dedicated to him. Primitives gods, altar, monkey, sun, day, stick 神聖(しんせい): holiness, sacredness, dignity 神殿(しんでん): temple, sacred place 神秘(しんぴ): mystery 神(かみ): god 神様(かみさま): god 神経(しんけい): nerve, sensitivity 神話(しんわ): myth, legend 精神(せいしん): mind, soul, heart, spirit, intention 神社(じんじゃ): Shinto shrine Kunyomi: かみ、かん-、こう- Onyomi: シン、ジン Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 神聖 (しんせい), 神経 (しんけい), 精神 (せいしん), 神 (かみ)"
search Details Story Dictionary 捜 search Heisig's Fingers . . . monkey . . . crotch. Koohii #1 The monkey searches around with his fingers for his crotch. Koohii #2 If you are familiar with the Monkey legends (西遊記 Journey to the West) there is a good image for this character: While searching for the end of the universe, monkey reaches to his crotch and urinates on Buddha´s fingers. (Update: new link http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RYXFppaKLL4). Primitives search, finger, fingers, Buddha’s hand, monkey, sun, day, stick, crotch 捜査(そうさ): search (esp. in criminal investigations), investigation 捜索(そうさく): search (esp. for someone or something missing), investigation 捜す(さがす): search, seek, look for Kunyomi: さが.す Onyomi: ソウ、シュ、シュウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 捜す (さが.す)	search 捜 画数10 1201 Details Story Dictionary 捜 search Heisig's Fingers . . . monkey . . . crotch. Koohii #1 The monkey searches around with his fingers for his crotch. Koohii #2 If you are familiar with the Monkey legends (西遊記 Journey to the West) there is a good image for this character: While searching for the end of the universe, monkey reaches to his crotch and urinates on Buddha´s fingers. (Update: new link http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RYXFppaKLL4). Primitives search, finger, fingers, Buddha’s hand, monkey, sun, day, stick, crotch 捜査(そうさ): search (esp. in criminal investigations), investigation 捜索(そうさく): search (esp. for someone or something missing), investigation 捜す(さがす): search, seek, look for Kunyomi: さが.す Onyomi: ソウ、シュ、シュウ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 捜す (さが.す)
fruit / result Details Story Dictionary 果 fruit / result My Story [rice field + Tree] In the *rice field*, I saw a *tree* with fruits on it. Koohii #1 If only Eve had used her brains and not taken the forbidden fruit from the tree. Koohii #2 Eve ate fruit from the tree and knowledge filled her brain.…　　　　　　RTK2:　カ　果汁　かじゅう (fruit juice)…　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Semi-Pure Group:　菓1122　課1123　(ﾗ): 裸1124. Primitives fruit, rice field, brains, tree, wood 成果(せいか): results, fruits 果ない(はかない): fleeting, transient, short-lived, momentary, vain, fickle, miserable, empty, ephemeral 果たして(はたして): as was expected, really 果たす(はたす): to accomplish, to fulfill, to carry out, to achieve 果て(はて): the end, the extremity, the limit(s), the result 果てる(はてる): to end, to be finished, to be exhausted, to die, to perish 果実(かじつ): fruit, nut, berry 結果(けっか): result, consequence 効果(こうか): effect, effectiveness, efficacy, result 果物(くだもの): fruit Kunyomi: は.たす、はた.す、-は.たす、は.てる、-は.てる、は.て Onyomi: カ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 果たす (は.たす), 果て (は.て), 果てる (は.てる)	fruit / result 果 画数8 1202 Details Story Dictionary 果 fruit / result My Story [rice field + Tree] In the *rice field*, I saw a *tree* with fruits on it. Koohii #1 If only Eve had used her brains and not taken the forbidden fruit from the tree. Koohii #2 Eve ate fruit from the tree and knowledge filled her brain.…　　　　　　RTK2:　カ　果汁　かじゅう (fruit juice)…　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Semi-Pure Group:　菓1122　課1123　(ﾗ): 裸1124. Primitives fruit, rice field, brains, tree, wood 成果(せいか): results, fruits 果ない(はかない): fleeting, transient, short-lived, momentary, vain, fickle, miserable, empty, ephemeral 果たして(はたして): as was expected, really 果たす(はたす): to accomplish, to fulfill, to carry out, to achieve 果て(はて): the end, the extremity, the limit(s), the result 果てる(はてる): to end, to be finished, to be exhausted, to die, to perish 果実(かじつ): fruit, nut, berry 結果(けっか): result, consequence 効果(こうか): effect, effectiveness, efficacy, result 果物(くだもの): fruit Kunyomi: は.たす、はた.す、-は.たす、は.てる、-は.てる、は.て Onyomi: カ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 果たす (は.たす), 果て (は.て), 果てる (は.てる)
confectionary Details Story Dictionary 菓 confectionary Heisig's Flowers . . . fruits. Koohii #1 This candy is made in the shape of a flower, each petal with the taste of a different fruit. Koohii #2 Candy is coloured like flowers and flavoured like fruit. Primitives candy, flowers, fruit, rice field, brains, tree, wood 菓子(かし): pastry お菓子(おかし): confections, sweets, candy Kunyomi: Onyomi: カ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	confectionary 菓 画数11 1203 Details Story Dictionary 菓 confectionary Heisig's Flowers . . . fruits. Koohii #1 This candy is made in the shape of a flower, each petal with the taste of a different fruit. Koohii #2 Candy is coloured like flowers and flavoured like fruit. Primitives candy, flowers, fruit, rice field, brains, tree, wood 菓子(かし): pastry お菓子(おかし): confections, sweets, candy Kunyomi: Onyomi: カ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
"chapter Details Story Dictionary 課 chapter Heisig's Words . . . fruit. Koohii #1 After I finish each chapter of RTK, I eat a piece of fruit to celebrate all the new words I´ve learned. (Thanks Misha!). Koohii #2 Words signify the written words in a book. The fruit represents something whole, complete. A chapter in a book often offers a complete idea, setting, or account. It´s good to disambiguate the keyword from paragraph (#82). To reinforce the kanji, imagine eating a fruit at the end of each chapter of Tolstoy´s ""War and Peace"" to reward yourself. (If you ate a fruit at the end of each paragraph, you´d very quickly run out of fruit). Primitives chapter, say, words, keitai, mouth, fruit, rice field, brains, tree, wood 課外(かがい): extracurricular 課題(かだい): subject, theme, task 課(か): counter for chapters (of a book) 課税(かぜい): taxation 課程(かてい): course, curriculum 日課(にっか): daily lesson, daily work, daily routine Kunyomi: Onyomi: カ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"chapter 課 画数15 1204 Details Story Dictionary 課 chapter Heisig's Words . . . fruit. Koohii #1 After I finish each chapter of RTK, I eat a piece of fruit to celebrate all the new words I´ve learned. (Thanks Misha!). Koohii #2 Words signify the written words in a book. The fruit represents something whole, complete. A chapter in a book often offers a complete idea, setting, or account. It´s good to disambiguate the keyword from paragraph (#82). To reinforce the kanji, imagine eating a fruit at the end of each chapter of Tolstoy´s ""War and Peace"" to reward yourself. (If you ate a fruit at the end of each paragraph, you´d very quickly run out of fruit). Primitives chapter, say, words, keitai, mouth, fruit, rice field, brains, tree, wood 課外(かがい): extracurricular 課題(かだい): subject, theme, task 課(か): counter for chapters (of a book) 課税(かぜい): taxation 課程(かてい): course, curriculum 日課(にっか): daily lesson, daily work, daily routine Kunyomi: Onyomi: カ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
naked Details Story Dictionary 裸 naked Heisig's Cloak . . . fruit. Koohii #1 Here we have Adam and Eve eating of the forbidden fruit and realizing they were naked, and so clothing themselves in a cloak. Koohii #2 Hey honey, I´m naked underneath this cloak. I´ve got some nice melons and a fresh peach waiting for you. Don´t you want to taste my forbidden fruits...? Primitives naked, cloak, fruit, rice field, brains, tree, wood 裸足(はだし): barefoot 裸(はだか): naked, nude, bare Kunyomi: はだか Onyomi: ラ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 裸 (はだか)	naked 裸 画数13 1205 Details Story Dictionary 裸 naked Heisig's Cloak . . . fruit. Koohii #1 Here we have Adam and Eve eating of the forbidden fruit and realizing they were naked, and so clothing themselves in a cloak. Koohii #2 Hey honey, I´m naked underneath this cloak. I´ve got some nice melons and a fresh peach waiting for you. Don´t you want to taste my forbidden fruits...? Primitives naked, cloak, fruit, rice field, brains, tree, wood 裸足(はだし): barefoot 裸(はだか): naked, nude, bare Kunyomi: はだか Onyomi: ラ Lesson: 30 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 裸 (はだか)
ax Details Story Dictionary 斤 ax Heisig's This character represents a picture of an ax, the two vertical lines being the handle and the horizontal strokes of the blade. Note the writing order carefully. Koohii #1 Errata: stroke order in 4th edition is wrong. Top stroke is first. Koohii #2 The axe-wielding maniac nails a poor victim, right under a cliff. Blood everywhere! (thanks scottamus!). Primitives axe Kunyomi: おの Onyomi: キン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	ax 斤 画数4 1206 Details Story Dictionary 斤 ax Heisig's This character represents a picture of an ax, the two vertical lines being the handle and the horizontal strokes of the blade. Note the writing order carefully. Koohii #1 Errata: stroke order in 4th edition is wrong. Top stroke is first. Koohii #2 The axe-wielding maniac nails a poor victim, right under a cliff. Blood everywhere! (thanks scottamus!). Primitives axe Kunyomi: おの Onyomi: キン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
chop Details Story Dictionary 析 chop Heisig's Tree . . . ax. Koohii #1 We chop down trees with axes to analyze their rings. Koohii #2 Wood + axe = chop? how much more simple can it get? Primitives chop, tree, wood, axe 分析(ぶんせき): analysis Kunyomi: Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	chop 析 画数8 1207 Details Story Dictionary 析 chop Heisig's Tree . . . ax. Koohii #1 We chop down trees with axes to analyze their rings. Koohii #2 Wood + axe = chop? how much more simple can it get? Primitives chop, tree, wood, axe 分析(ぶんせき): analysis Kunyomi: Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
place Details Story Dictionary 所 place Heisig's Door . . . ax. Koohii #1 You outsiders better learn your place! An axe stuck in the door when you get home is a pretty good indicator that this might not be the best place for you. Koohii #2 A place for everything and everything in its place. To the right of the door is the standard place for the axe. Primitives place, door, one, ceiling, flag, axe 所謂(いわゆる): the so-called, so to speak 箇所(かしょ): passage, place, point, part 所在(しょざい): whereabouts 所持(しょじ): possession, owning 所々(しょしょ): here and there, some parts (of something) 所属(しょぞく): attached to, belong to 所定(しょてい): fixed, prescribed 所得(しょとく): income, earnings 所が(ところが): however, while, even if 所で(ところで): by the way, even if, no matter what 余所見(よそみ): looking away, looking aside 個所(かしょ): passage, place, point, part 所為(せい): act, deed, one´s doing 短所(たんしょ): defect, demerit, weak point, disadvantage 長所(ちょうしょ): strong point, merit, advantage 停留所(ていりゅうじょ): bus or tram stop 所々(ところどころ): here and there, some parts (of something) 場所(ばしょ): place, location 便所(べんじょ): toilet, lavatory, rest room, latrine 名所(めいしょ): famous place 役所(やくしょ): government office, public office 余所(よそ): another place, somewhere else, strange parts 近所(きんじょ): neighbor hood 事務所(じむしょ): office 住所(じゅうしょ): address 台所(だいどころ): kitchen 所(ところ): place Kunyomi: ところ、-ところ、どころ、とこ Onyomi: ショ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 所 (ところ)	place 所 画数8 1208 Details Story Dictionary 所 place Heisig's Door . . . ax. Koohii #1 You outsiders better learn your place! An axe stuck in the door when you get home is a pretty good indicator that this might not be the best place for you. Koohii #2 A place for everything and everything in its place. To the right of the door is the standard place for the axe. Primitives place, door, one, ceiling, flag, axe 所謂(いわゆる): the so-called, so to speak 箇所(かしょ): passage, place, point, part 所在(しょざい): whereabouts 所持(しょじ): possession, owning 所々(しょしょ): here and there, some parts (of something) 所属(しょぞく): attached to, belong to 所定(しょてい): fixed, prescribed 所得(しょとく): income, earnings 所が(ところが): however, while, even if 所で(ところで): by the way, even if, no matter what 余所見(よそみ): looking away, looking aside 個所(かしょ): passage, place, point, part 所為(せい): act, deed, one´s doing 短所(たんしょ): defect, demerit, weak point, disadvantage 長所(ちょうしょ): strong point, merit, advantage 停留所(ていりゅうじょ): bus or tram stop 所々(ところどころ): here and there, some parts (of something) 場所(ばしょ): place, location 便所(べんじょ): toilet, lavatory, rest room, latrine 名所(めいしょ): famous place 役所(やくしょ): government office, public office 余所(よそ): another place, somewhere else, strange parts 近所(きんじょ): neighbor hood 事務所(じむしょ): office 住所(じゅうしょ): address 台所(だいどころ): kitchen 所(ところ): place Kunyomi: ところ、-ところ、どころ、とこ Onyomi: ショ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 所 (ところ)
pray Details Story Dictionary 祈 pray My Story [ネkrophilia + Axe] The *ネkorophile* prayed to god for mercy before was killed with an *axe* Koohii #1 Religious freedom has not always been respected throughout history, and nobody knew how to force religion on an indigenous people like the Spanish missionaries. They posted conquistadors at either side of the altars at the local missions, and if anybody refused to pray, they would get the axe. Koohii #2 A warrior prays for victory before the battle. He kneels at the altar, his battle axe at the ready. Primitives pray, altar, axe 祈り(いのり): prayer, supplication 祈る(いのる): pray Kunyomi: いの.る Onyomi: キ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 祈る (いの.る)	pray 祈 画数8 1209 Details Story Dictionary 祈 pray My Story [ネkrophilia + Axe] The *ネkorophile* prayed to god for mercy before was killed with an *axe* Koohii #1 Religious freedom has not always been respected throughout history, and nobody knew how to force religion on an indigenous people like the Spanish missionaries. They posted conquistadors at either side of the altars at the local missions, and if anybody refused to pray, they would get the axe. Koohii #2 A warrior prays for victory before the battle. He kneels at the altar, his battle axe at the ready. Primitives pray, altar, axe 祈り(いのり): prayer, supplication 祈る(いのる): pray Kunyomi: いの.る Onyomi: キ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 祈る (いの.る)
near Details Story Dictionary 近 near Heisig's Ax . . . road. Be careful not to confuse with draw near (Frame 204) or bystander (Frame 1090). Koohii #1 The end is near. The axe-murderer is waiting for you on the road... Koohii #2 An absurd image, but working for me: two points A and B are separated by a long road. To make A and B near, take an ax, cut a big chunk of road, and the work is done. Primitives near, axe, road 近眼(きんがん): nearsightedness, shortsightedness, myopia 近々(きんきん): nearness, before long 近郊(きんこう): suburbs, outskirts 近視(きんし): shortsightedness 近付く(ちかづく): to approach, to get near, to get acquainted with, to get closer 手近(てぢか): near, handy, familiar 身近(みぢか): near oneself, close to one, familiar 近代(きんだい): present day 接近(せっきん): getting closer, approaching 近頃(ちかごろ): lately, recently, nowadays 近々(ちかぢか): nearness, before long 近付ける(ちかづける): bring near, put close, let come near, associate with 近寄る(ちかよる): approach, draw near 付近(ふきん): neighbourhood, vicinity, environs 近所(きんじょ): neighbor hood 最近(さいきん): recently 近い(ちかい): near, close by, short 近く(ちかく): near, neighbourhood, vicinity Kunyomi: ちか.い Onyomi: キン、コン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 近い (ちか.い)	near 近 画数7 1210 Details Story Dictionary 近 near Heisig's Ax . . . road. Be careful not to confuse with draw near (Frame 204) or bystander (Frame 1090). Koohii #1 The end is near. The axe-murderer is waiting for you on the road... Koohii #2 An absurd image, but working for me: two points A and B are separated by a long road. To make A and B near, take an ax, cut a big chunk of road, and the work is done. Primitives near, axe, road 近眼(きんがん): nearsightedness, shortsightedness, myopia 近々(きんきん): nearness, before long 近郊(きんこう): suburbs, outskirts 近視(きんし): shortsightedness 近付く(ちかづく): to approach, to get near, to get acquainted with, to get closer 手近(てぢか): near, handy, familiar 身近(みぢか): near oneself, close to one, familiar 近代(きんだい): present day 接近(せっきん): getting closer, approaching 近頃(ちかごろ): lately, recently, nowadays 近々(ちかぢか): nearness, before long 近付ける(ちかづける): bring near, put close, let come near, associate with 近寄る(ちかよる): approach, draw near 付近(ふきん): neighbourhood, vicinity, environs 近所(きんじょ): neighbor hood 最近(さいきん): recently 近い(ちかい): near, close by, short 近く(ちかく): near, neighbourhood, vicinity Kunyomi: ちか.い Onyomi: キン、コン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 近い (ちか.い)
"fold Details Story Dictionary 折 fold Heisig's Fingers . . . ax. Hint: make an image out of the Japanese art of ""origami"" (paper-folding). Koohii #1 It´s the latest Japanese game show: Forudo! Contestants are given a sheet of paper and are told to fold it into a complex origami shape. If they´re not done in 60 seconds, a huge axe descends from the ceiling and chops their work in half. Contestants know to recoil their hands from the falling axe, but some have been so absorbed in folding, they ignore the buzzer and get their fingers chopped off. Koohii #2 Fold some origami into the shape of an axe with your fingers. It´s even as sharp, so watch out for paper cuts! Primitives fold, finger, fingers, axe 折り返す(おりかえす): to turn up, to fold back 屈折(くっせつ): bending, indentation, refraction 折衷(せっちゅう): compromise, cross, blending, eclecticism 時折(ときおり): sometimes 折る(おる): break, fold, pick (flower) 骨折(こっせつ): bone fracture 折角(せっかく): with trouble, at great pains, long-awaited 折れる(おれる): break, snap Kunyomi: お.る、おり、お.り、-お.り、お.れる Onyomi: セツ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 折る (お.る), 折れる (お.れる), 折 (おり)"	"fold 折 画数7 1211 Details Story Dictionary 折 fold Heisig's Fingers . . . ax. Hint: make an image out of the Japanese art of ""origami"" (paper-folding). Koohii #1 It´s the latest Japanese game show: Forudo! Contestants are given a sheet of paper and are told to fold it into a complex origami shape. If they´re not done in 60 seconds, a huge axe descends from the ceiling and chops their work in half. Contestants know to recoil their hands from the falling axe, but some have been so absorbed in folding, they ignore the buzzer and get their fingers chopped off. Koohii #2 Fold some origami into the shape of an axe with your fingers. It´s even as sharp, so watch out for paper cuts! Primitives fold, finger, fingers, axe 折り返す(おりかえす): to turn up, to fold back 屈折(くっせつ): bending, indentation, refraction 折衷(せっちゅう): compromise, cross, blending, eclecticism 時折(ときおり): sometimes 折る(おる): break, fold, pick (flower) 骨折(こっせつ): bone fracture 折角(せっかく): with trouble, at great pains, long-awaited 折れる(おれる): break, snap Kunyomi: お.る、おり、お.り、-お.り、お.れる Onyomi: セツ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 折る (お.る), 折れる (お.れる), 折 (おり)"
philosophy Details Story Dictionary 哲 philosophy Heisig's Fold . . . mouth. Koohii #1 A two-hour lesson of philosophy in high school. All the students, bored to death, are folding sheets of paper into planes, love notes or whatever, while the mouth of the teacher is talking about Platon, Kierkegaard and many other notorious philosophers. Koohii #2 I fold my mouth, therefore I am. Primitives philosophy, fold, finger, fingers, axe, mouth 哲学(てつがく): philosophy Kunyomi: さとい、あき.らか、し.る、さば.く Onyomi: テツ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	philosophy 哲 画数10 1212 Details Story Dictionary 哲 philosophy Heisig's Fold . . . mouth. Koohii #1 A two-hour lesson of philosophy in high school. All the students, bored to death, are folding sheets of paper into planes, love notes or whatever, while the mouth of the teacher is talking about Platon, Kierkegaard and many other notorious philosophers. Koohii #2 I fold my mouth, therefore I am. Primitives philosophy, fold, finger, fingers, axe, mouth 哲学(てつがく): philosophy Kunyomi: さとい、あき.らか、し.る、さば.く Onyomi: テツ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"departed Details Story Dictionary 逝 departed Heisig's The connotation is of a ""dearly departed"" who has passed away. The elements: fold . . . road. Koohii #1 One of the dearest of Japan´s dearly departed is Sasaki Sadako, who developed Leukemia after the bombing of Hiroshima, and became famous for folding more than a thousand paper cranes, never giving up hope. To this day, people in Hiroshima still fold origami cranes in her memory. For this character, let us imagine a parade in her honor, the entire road lined with folded cranes. Koohii #2 The BIG ONE hits Tokyo. You see a news report of the recently departed victims who died when the roads folded (from the earthquake). Primitives departed, fold, finger, fingers, axe, road Kunyomi: ゆ.く、い.く Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 逝く (ゆ.く)"	"departed 逝 画数10 1213 Details Story Dictionary 逝 departed Heisig's The connotation is of a ""dearly departed"" who has passed away. The elements: fold . . . road. Koohii #1 One of the dearest of Japan´s dearly departed is Sasaki Sadako, who developed Leukemia after the bombing of Hiroshima, and became famous for folding more than a thousand paper cranes, never giving up hope. To this day, people in Hiroshima still fold origami cranes in her memory. For this character, let us imagine a parade in her honor, the entire road lined with folded cranes. Koohii #2 The BIG ONE hits Tokyo. You see a news report of the recently departed victims who died when the roads folded (from the earthquake). Primitives departed, fold, finger, fingers, axe, road Kunyomi: ゆ.く、い.く Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 逝く (ゆ.く)"
"vow Details Story Dictionary 誓 vow Heisig's Fold . . . words. Koohii #1 This Japanese couple wrote the vows that they had made to each other onto a piece of paper and then folded it into an origami, and put it somewhere in their appartment. To everybody else it is an origami, but to them it is also a symbol of their vows. -- ""the folded words are vows"". Note : in this story and a few others I use the image of an origami for the primitive ""fold"". Koohii #2 A Japanese wedding tradition is to present each other with origami cranes with their vows written on the BOTTOM. Primitives vow, fold, finger, fingers, axe, say, words, keitai, mouth 誓う(ちかう): swear, vow, take an oath, pledge Kunyomi: ちか.う Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 誓う (ちか.う)"	"vow 誓 画数14 1214 Details Story Dictionary 誓 vow Heisig's Fold . . . words. Koohii #1 This Japanese couple wrote the vows that they had made to each other onto a piece of paper and then folded it into an origami, and put it somewhere in their appartment. To everybody else it is an origami, but to them it is also a symbol of their vows. -- ""the folded words are vows"". Note : in this story and a few others I use the image of an origami for the primitive ""fold"". Koohii #2 A Japanese wedding tradition is to present each other with origami cranes with their vows written on the BOTTOM. Primitives vow, fold, finger, fingers, axe, say, words, keitai, mouth 誓う(ちかう): swear, vow, take an oath, pledge Kunyomi: ちか.う Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 誓う (ちか.う)"
"chop off Details Story Dictionary 斬 chop off Heisig's Car . . . ax. Koohii #1 A ""chop shop"" is a place where stolen cars are taken, and parts chopped off with an axe, to be sold. Koohii #2 I wanted a convertible so I chopped off the top of my car with an axe. Primitives chop off, executioner, car, axe 斬る(きる): murder, behead Kunyomi: き.る Onyomi: ザン、サン、セン、ゼン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 斬る (き.る)"	"chop off 斬 画数11 1215 Details Story Dictionary 斬 chop off Heisig's Car . . . ax. Koohii #1 A ""chop shop"" is a place where stolen cars are taken, and parts chopped off with an axe, to be sold. Koohii #2 I wanted a convertible so I chopped off the top of my car with an axe. Primitives chop off, executioner, car, axe 斬る(きる): murder, behead Kunyomi: き.る Onyomi: ザン、サン、セン、ゼン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 斬る (き.る)"
temporarily Details Story Dictionary 暫 temporarily Heisig's Chop off . . . days. Koohii #1 Your car has been savagely (see steadily) attacked by an ax. It will be some days before your car is fixed. So you are temporarily without car. Koohii #2 Today is Car Axe Day. The day where you can temporarily (today only) attack cars using an axe without punishment. Primitives temporarily, executioner, chop off, car, axe, sun, day 暫く(しばらく): little while Kunyomi: しばら.く Onyomi: ザン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	temporarily 暫 画数15 1216 Details Story Dictionary 暫 temporarily Heisig's Chop off . . . days. Koohii #1 Your car has been savagely (see steadily) attacked by an ax. It will be some days before your car is fixed. So you are temporarily without car. Koohii #2 Today is Car Axe Day. The day where you can temporarily (today only) attack cars using an axe without punishment. Primitives temporarily, executioner, chop off, car, axe, sun, day 暫く(しばらく): little while Kunyomi: しばら.く Onyomi: ザン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
steadily Details Story Dictionary 漸 steadily Heisig's Water . . . chop off. Koohii #1 I imagine firemen working steadily to rescue a man from a crashed car. First, they spray it with water; then, they use an axe to break through the window. Koohii #2 Water + Car + Axe: The steadily rising water was filling the car, but the firefighters took their axe and broke the window, getting me out. Primitives steadily, water, water droplets, water pistol, executioner, chop off, car, axe 漸く(ようやく): gradually, finally, hardly Kunyomi: やや Onyomi: ゼン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	steadily 漸 画数14 1217 Details Story Dictionary 漸 steadily Heisig's Water . . . chop off. Koohii #1 I imagine firemen working steadily to rescue a man from a crashed car. First, they spray it with water; then, they use an axe to break through the window. Koohii #2 Water + Car + Axe: The steadily rising water was filling the car, but the firefighters took their axe and broke the window, getting me out. Primitives steadily, water, water droplets, water pistol, executioner, chop off, car, axe 漸く(ようやく): gradually, finally, hardly Kunyomi: やや Onyomi: ゼン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"decision/judgement/refuse (sever Details Story Dictionary 断 decision/judgement/refuse (sever My Story [""L"" + Rice/America + Ax] Don't take *""L""* if your Hooked on *rice*. #Sever# your tie to your addiction by symbollically *axing* it. Koohii #1 [Based on fuaburisu´s] A man puts some rice on a fishhook as bait, but catches a fish so strong, he needs to take out his axe and sever the line lest he be dragged into the depths. Koohii #2 When you get the ax at work, use your severance pay to buy fishhooks and rice. At least that way you can eat sushi. Primitives severance, fishhook, rice, axe 決断(けつだん): decision, determination 断言(だんげん): declaration, affirmation 断然(だんぜん): firmly, absolutely, definitely 断面(だんめん): cross section 中断(ちゅうだん): interruption, suspension, break 無断(むだん): without permission, without notice 横断(おうだん): crossing 断る(ことわる): refuse, reject, dismiss, turn down, decline, inform, give notice, ask leave, excuse oneself (from) 診断(しんだん): diagnosis 断水(だんすい): water outage 断定(だんてい): conclusion, decision 判断(はんだん): judgement, decision, adjudication, conclusion, decipherment, divination 油断(ゆだん): negligence, unpreparedness Kunyomi: た.つ、ことわ.る、さだ.める Onyomi: ダン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 断る (ことわ.る), 断つ (た.つ)"	"decision/judgement/refuse (sever 断 画数11 1218 Details Story Dictionary 断 decision/judgement/refuse (sever My Story [""L"" + Rice/America + Ax] Don't take *""L""* if your Hooked on *rice*. #Sever# your tie to your addiction by symbollically *axing* it. Koohii #1 [Based on fuaburisu´s] A man puts some rice on a fishhook as bait, but catches a fish so strong, he needs to take out his axe and sever the line lest he be dragged into the depths. Koohii #2 When you get the ax at work, use your severance pay to buy fishhooks and rice. At least that way you can eat sushi. Primitives severance, fishhook, rice, axe 決断(けつだん): decision, determination 断言(だんげん): declaration, affirmation 断然(だんぜん): firmly, absolutely, definitely 断面(だんめん): cross section 中断(ちゅうだん): interruption, suspension, break 無断(むだん): without permission, without notice 横断(おうだん): crossing 断る(ことわる): refuse, reject, dismiss, turn down, decline, inform, give notice, ask leave, excuse oneself (from) 診断(しんだん): diagnosis 断水(だんすい): water outage 断定(だんてい): conclusion, decision 判断(はんだん): judgement, decision, adjudication, conclusion, decipherment, divination 油断(ゆだん): negligence, unpreparedness Kunyomi: た.つ、ことわ.る、さだ.める Onyomi: ダン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 断る (ことわ.る), 断つ (た.つ)"
substance / quality Details Story Dictionary 質 substance / quality My Story [Axes + shellfish/money] These *two axes* are the best-#quality# SHIT *money* can buy. They are an item of #substance# Koohii #1 What is this substance on this clam? I´ve already broken 2 axes on it! (Good question...質問). Koohii #2 Another keyword that I do not like by Heisig. 質【しつ】 (n,n-suf) quality. Story: Your at a local ax dealer and you have TWO AXES which you are testing for QUALITY by trying to split CLAMS right down the opening. Picture yourself succeeding with one AX and then some weird SUBSTANCE comes out of the shell...eww (I don´t like clams). Primitives substance, axe, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, axe2 気質(かたぎ): spirit, character, trait, temperament, disposition 質疑(しつぎ): question 実質(じっしつ): substance, essence 質素(しっそ): simplicity, modesty, frugality 蛋白質(たんぱくしつ): protein 人質(ひとじち): hostage, prisoner 品質(ひんしつ): quality 本質(ほんしつ): essence, true nature, reality 良質(りょうしつ): good quality, superior quality 質(しつ): quality 性質(せいしつ): nature, property, disposition 素質(そしつ): character, qualities, genius 地質(ちしつ): geological features 物質(ぶっしつ): material, substance 質問(しつもん): question, inquiry Kunyomi: たち、ただ.す、もと、わりふ Onyomi: シツ、シチ、チ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 質問 (しつもん), 質実 (しつじつ), 本質 (ほんしつ), 質屋 (しちや), 人質 (ひとじち)	substance / quality 質 画数15 1219 Details Story Dictionary 質 substance / quality My Story [Axes + shellfish/money] These *two axes* are the best-#quality# SHIT *money* can buy. They are an item of #substance# Koohii #1 What is this substance on this clam? I´ve already broken 2 axes on it! (Good question...質問). Koohii #2 Another keyword that I do not like by Heisig. 質【しつ】 (n,n-suf) quality. Story: Your at a local ax dealer and you have TWO AXES which you are testing for QUALITY by trying to split CLAMS right down the opening. Picture yourself succeeding with one AX and then some weird SUBSTANCE comes out of the shell...eww (I don´t like clams). Primitives substance, axe, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, axe2 気質(かたぎ): spirit, character, trait, temperament, disposition 質疑(しつぎ): question 実質(じっしつ): substance, essence 質素(しっそ): simplicity, modesty, frugality 蛋白質(たんぱくしつ): protein 人質(ひとじち): hostage, prisoner 品質(ひんしつ): quality 本質(ほんしつ): essence, true nature, reality 良質(りょうしつ): good quality, superior quality 質(しつ): quality 性質(せいしつ): nature, property, disposition 素質(そしつ): character, qualities, genius 地質(ちしつ): geological features 物質(ぶっしつ): material, substance 質問(しつもん): question, inquiry Kunyomi: たち、ただ.す、もと、わりふ Onyomi: シツ、シチ、チ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 質問 (しつもん), 質実 (しつじつ), 本質 (ほんしつ), 質屋 (しちや), 人質 (ひとじち)
reject Details Story Dictionary 斥 reject Heisig's Ax . . . a drop of. Koohii #1 The kids at school used to reject me.. Made me feel really bad till I brought my axe to school. See the drop of blood on it? Koohii #2 The quality expectations are very high in our axe manufacturing facility. If there´s one drop of rust on any axe, it gets rejected. Primitives reject, axe, drop Kunyomi: しりぞ.ける Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	reject 斥 画数5 1220 Details Story Dictionary 斥 reject Heisig's Ax . . . a drop of. Koohii #1 The kids at school used to reject me.. Made me feel really bad till I brought my axe to school. See the drop of blood on it? Koohii #2 The quality expectations are very high in our axe manufacturing facility. If there´s one drop of rust on any axe, it gets rejected. Primitives reject, axe, drop Kunyomi: しりぞ.ける Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
accusation Details Story Dictionary 訴 accusation Heisig's Words . . . reject. Koohii #1 I strongly reject the accusation implicit in your words. Koohii #2 Words that make you feel rejected. Primitives accusation, say, words, keitai, mouth, reject, axe, drop 訴え(うったえ): lawsuit, complaint 訴訟(そしょう): litigation, lawsuit 訴える(うったえる): sue (a person), resort to, appeal to Kunyomi: うった.える Onyomi: ソ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 訴える (うった.える)	accusation 訴 画数12 1221 Details Story Dictionary 訴 accusation Heisig's Words . . . reject. Koohii #1 I strongly reject the accusation implicit in your words. Koohii #2 Words that make you feel rejected. Primitives accusation, say, words, keitai, mouth, reject, axe, drop 訴え(うったえ): lawsuit, complaint 訴訟(そしょう): litigation, lawsuit 訴える(うったえる): sue (a person), resort to, appeal to Kunyomi: うった.える Onyomi: ソ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 訴える (うった.える)
yesterday Details Story Dictionary 昨 yesterday Heisig's Day . . . saw. Koohii #1 One can use a simple word play to remember this character - the day that I saw before today was yesterday. Koohii #2 Yester-DAY, all my troubles seemed SAW far away... Primitives yesterday, sun, day, saw 一昨日(おととい): day before yesterday 一昨年(おととし): year before last 一昨昨日(さきおととい): two days before yesterday 一昨日(いっさくじつ): day before yesterday 一昨年(いっさくねん): year before last 昨(さく): last (year), yesterday 昨日(きのう): yesterday Kunyomi: Onyomi: サク Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	yesterday 昨 画数9 1222 Details Story Dictionary 昨 yesterday Heisig's Day . . . saw. Koohii #1 One can use a simple word play to remember this character - the day that I saw before today was yesterday. Koohii #2 Yester-DAY, all my troubles seemed SAW far away... Primitives yesterday, sun, day, saw 一昨日(おととい): day before yesterday 一昨年(おととし): year before last 一昨昨日(さきおととい): two days before yesterday 一昨日(いっさくじつ): day before yesterday 一昨年(いっさくねん): year before last 昨(さく): last (year), yesterday 昨日(きのう): yesterday Kunyomi: Onyomi: サク Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
lie Details Story Dictionary 詐 lie Heisig's The lie in this character refers to falsehoods and fibs. Its elements: words . . . saw. Koohii #1 Pinnochio gets frustrated that every time he utters a word of a lie, his nose grows and he has to get the saw out again. Koohii #2 Her lies are words that cut not like a knife, no not cleanly, but savagely like a saw. Primitives lie, say, words, keitai, mouth, saw 詐欺(さぎ): fraud, swindle Kunyomi: いつわ.る Onyomi: サ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	lie 詐 画数12 1223 Details Story Dictionary 詐 lie Heisig's The lie in this character refers to falsehoods and fibs. Its elements: words . . . saw. Koohii #1 Pinnochio gets frustrated that every time he utters a word of a lie, his nose grows and he has to get the saw out again. Koohii #2 Her lies are words that cut not like a knife, no not cleanly, but savagely like a saw. Primitives lie, say, words, keitai, mouth, saw 詐欺(さぎ): fraud, swindle Kunyomi: いつわ.る Onyomi: サ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"make Details Story Dictionary 作 make Heisig's Person . . . saw. Koohii #1 Mr T.´s favorite magazine is Make. He loves to make things. But he´s a purist: he only uses saws, no power tools. Koohii #2 When the A-Team crash lands on a deserted island, Mr. T salvages a saw from the wreckage and says, ""I don´t know about y´all foos, but I´m gonna make a raft."". Primitives make, person, saw 凶作(きょうさく): bad harvest, poor crop 原作(げんさく): original work 工作(こうさく): work, construction, handicraft, maneuvering 耕作(こうさく): cultivation, farming 作(さく): a work, a harvest 作戦(さくせん): military or naval operations, tactics, strategy 作物(さくぶつ): literary work 作用(さよう): action, operation, effect, function 創作(そうさく): production, literary creation, work 駄作(ださく): poor work, rubbish 作り(つくり): make-up, sliced raw fish 豊作(ほうさく): abundant harvest, bumper crop 発作(ほっさ): fit, spasm 傑作(けっさく): masterpiece, best work, blunder 作業(さぎょう): work, operation, manufacturing, fatigue duty 作者(さくしゃ): author 作成(さくせい): frame, draw up, make, producing, creating, preparing, writing, 作製(さくせい): manufacture 作品(さくひん): work, opus, performance, production 作物(さくもつ): literary work 作家(さっか): author, writer, novelist, artist 作曲(さっきょく): composition, setting (of music) 作法(さほう): manners, etiquette, propriety 制作(せいさく): work (film, book) 製作(せいさく): manufacture, production 操作(そうさ): operation, management, processing 動作(どうさ): action, movements, motions, bearing, behaviour, manners 名作(めいさく): masterpiece 作文(さくぶん): composition, writing 作る(つくる): to make, create, manufacture, construct, draw up, write, compose, build, cultivate, organize, establish, make up (a face), trim (a tree), prepare (food), commit (sin) Kunyomi: つく.る、つく.り、-づく.り Onyomi: サク、サ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 作為 (さくい), 著作 (ちょさく), 豊作 (ほうさく), 作る (つく.る)"	"make 作 画数7 1224 Details Story Dictionary 作 make Heisig's Person . . . saw. Koohii #1 Mr T.´s favorite magazine is Make. He loves to make things. But he´s a purist: he only uses saws, no power tools. Koohii #2 When the A-Team crash lands on a deserted island, Mr. T salvages a saw from the wreckage and says, ""I don´t know about y´all foos, but I´m gonna make a raft."". Primitives make, person, saw 凶作(きょうさく): bad harvest, poor crop 原作(げんさく): original work 工作(こうさく): work, construction, handicraft, maneuvering 耕作(こうさく): cultivation, farming 作(さく): a work, a harvest 作戦(さくせん): military or naval operations, tactics, strategy 作物(さくぶつ): literary work 作用(さよう): action, operation, effect, function 創作(そうさく): production, literary creation, work 駄作(ださく): poor work, rubbish 作り(つくり): make-up, sliced raw fish 豊作(ほうさく): abundant harvest, bumper crop 発作(ほっさ): fit, spasm 傑作(けっさく): masterpiece, best work, blunder 作業(さぎょう): work, operation, manufacturing, fatigue duty 作者(さくしゃ): author 作成(さくせい): frame, draw up, make, producing, creating, preparing, writing, 作製(さくせい): manufacture 作品(さくひん): work, opus, performance, production 作物(さくもつ): literary work 作家(さっか): author, writer, novelist, artist 作曲(さっきょく): composition, setting (of music) 作法(さほう): manners, etiquette, propriety 制作(せいさく): work (film, book) 製作(せいさく): manufacture, production 操作(そうさ): operation, management, processing 動作(どうさ): action, movements, motions, bearing, behaviour, manners 名作(めいさく): masterpiece 作文(さくぶん): composition, writing 作る(つくる): to make, create, manufacture, construct, draw up, write, compose, build, cultivate, organize, establish, make up (a face), trim (a tree), prepare (food), commit (sin) Kunyomi: つく.る、つく.り、-づく.り Onyomi: サク、サ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 作為 (さくい), 著作 (ちょさく), 豊作 (ほうさく), 作る (つく.る)"
snow Details Story Dictionary 雪 snow Heisig's Rain that undergoes a change so that it can be swept aside with a broom is snow. Koohii #1 SNOW isn´t all that different from RAIN, except it can be removed with a BROOM because it only forms in freezing temperatures. Koohii #2 Rain just soaks into the soil. Snow has to be swept away with a broom...　RTK2:　セツ　積雪　せきせつ(pilled up snow). Primitives snow, rain, weather, broom 雪崩(なだれ): avalanche 吹雪(ふぶき): snow storm 雪(ゆき): snow Kunyomi: ゆき Onyomi: セツ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 雪 (ゆき)	snow 雪 画数11 1225 Details Story Dictionary 雪 snow Heisig's Rain that undergoes a change so that it can be swept aside with a broom is snow. Koohii #1 SNOW isn´t all that different from RAIN, except it can be removed with a BROOM because it only forms in freezing temperatures. Koohii #2 Rain just soaks into the soil. Snow has to be swept away with a broom...　RTK2:　セツ　積雪　せきせつ(pilled up snow). Primitives snow, rain, weather, broom 雪崩(なだれ): avalanche 吹雪(ふぶき): snow storm 雪(ゆき): snow Kunyomi: ゆき Onyomi: セツ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 雪 (ゆき)
record Details Story Dictionary 録 record Heisig's Metal . . . broom . . . rice. Note how the final stroke of the broom is extended slightly when an element below is attached directly to it. Koohii #1 A monk won a gold metal for breaking the current record for most swept rice in one minute. Koohii #2 This character is about a recording for a music box. The tines of the mechanism are like a metal broom and the little pins on the cylinder are like metal grains of rice. Primitives record, metal, gold, dustpan, broom, grains of rice 登録(とうろく): registration, register, entry, record 付録(ふろく): appendix, supplement 目録(もくろく): catalogue, catalog, list 記録(きろく): record, minutes, document 録音(ろくおん): (audio) recording Kunyomi: Onyomi: ロク Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	record 録 画数16 1226 Details Story Dictionary 録 record Heisig's Metal . . . broom . . . rice. Note how the final stroke of the broom is extended slightly when an element below is attached directly to it. Koohii #1 A monk won a gold metal for breaking the current record for most swept rice in one minute. Koohii #2 This character is about a recording for a music box. The tines of the mechanism are like a metal broom and the little pins on the cylinder are like metal grains of rice. Primitives record, metal, gold, dustpan, broom, grains of rice 登録(とうろく): registration, register, entry, record 付録(ふろく): appendix, supplement 目録(もくろく): catalogue, catalog, list 記録(きろく): record, minutes, document 録音(ろくおん): (audio) recording Kunyomi: Onyomi: ロク Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
peel off Details Story Dictionary 剥 剝 peel off Heisig's Broom . . . rice grains . . . saber. Koohii #1 Peel off the outside of the broom that sweeps up rice grains to reveal a saber. Koohii #2 A multi-purpose broom! It cleans, it sweeps (rice!), it hits! In fact, peel off the mahogany exterior to uncover a sabre! It slices, it dices, it kills! Primitives peel off, dustpan, broom, grains of rice, sword, sabre, saber 剥がす(はがす): to tear off, to peel off, to rip off, to strip off, to skin, to flay, to disrobe, to deprive of, to detach, to disconnect 剥ぐ(はぐ): to tear off, to peel off, to rip off, to strip off, to skin, to flay, to disrobe, to deprive of 剥げる(はげる): to come off, to be worn off, to fade, to discolor 剥す(はがす): tear off, peel off, rip off, strip off, skin, flay, disrobe, deprive of, detach, disconnect 剥く(むく): peel, skin, pare, hull Kunyomi: へ.ぐ、へず.る、む.く、む.ける、は.がれる、は.ぐ、は.げる、は.がす Onyomi: ハク、ホク Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 剥がす (は.がす), 剥ぐ (は.ぐ)	peel off 剥 剝 画数10 1227 Details Story Dictionary 剥 剝 peel off Heisig's Broom . . . rice grains . . . saber. Koohii #1 Peel off the outside of the broom that sweeps up rice grains to reveal a saber. Koohii #2 A multi-purpose broom! It cleans, it sweeps (rice!), it hits! In fact, peel off the mahogany exterior to uncover a sabre! It slices, it dices, it kills! Primitives peel off, dustpan, broom, grains of rice, sword, sabre, saber 剥がす(はがす): to tear off, to peel off, to rip off, to strip off, to skin, to flay, to disrobe, to deprive of, to detach, to disconnect 剥ぐ(はぐ): to tear off, to peel off, to rip off, to strip off, to skin, to flay, to disrobe, to deprive of 剥げる(はげる): to come off, to be worn off, to fade, to discolor 剥す(はがす): tear off, peel off, rip off, strip off, skin, flay, disrobe, deprive of, detach, disconnect 剥く(むく): peel, skin, pare, hull Kunyomi: へ.ぐ、へず.る、む.く、む.ける、は.がれる、は.ぐ、は.げる、は.がす Onyomi: ハク、ホク Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 剥がす (は.がす), 剥ぐ (は.ぐ)
"inquire Details Story Dictionary 尋 inquire Heisig's Broom . . . craft . . . mouth . . . glue. Koohii #1 The policed inquired into the erotica scandal. They tried to sweep away the evidence, but some of it stuck. (Note: katakana エロ ero in the middle of this kanji is the Japanese word for erotica.). Koohii #2 As a verb this means, this means ""to ask; to enquire; to search; to look for; to look into; to investigate;"". Imagine the police inquiring in an in-depth investigation. They are interrogating a suspect. But the suspect has a crafty mouth and is very sly. He/she also knows when to keep their mouth shut(glued) at the right moments to avoid self-incrimination. As a final measure, the police torture the suspect by tickling him/her with a broom while they inquire. Primitives inquire, broom, craft, mouth, glue 尋ねる(たずねる): ask Kunyomi: たず.ねる、ひろ Onyomi: ジン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 尋ねる (たず.ねる)"	"inquire 尋 画数12 1228 Details Story Dictionary 尋 inquire Heisig's Broom . . . craft . . . mouth . . . glue. Koohii #1 The policed inquired into the erotica scandal. They tried to sweep away the evidence, but some of it stuck. (Note: katakana エロ ero in the middle of this kanji is the Japanese word for erotica.). Koohii #2 As a verb this means, this means ""to ask; to enquire; to search; to look for; to look into; to investigate;"". Imagine the police inquiring in an in-depth investigation. They are interrogating a suspect. But the suspect has a crafty mouth and is very sly. He/she also knows when to keep their mouth shut(glued) at the right moments to avoid self-incrimination. As a final measure, the police torture the suspect by tickling him/her with a broom while they inquire. Primitives inquire, broom, craft, mouth, glue 尋ねる(たずねる): ask Kunyomi: たず.ねる、ひろ Onyomi: ジン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 尋ねる (たず.ねる)"
hurry Details Story Dictionary 急 hurry Heisig's Bound up . . . broom . . . heart. Koohii #1 She was always bound to a broom, her heart pounding in a hurry to finish before she was punished for being slow. Koohii #2 Fantasia: Bound up brooms out of control send Mickey´s heart racing--he has to hurry and figure out how to stop them before the magician returns! Primitives hurry, bound up, broom, heart 応急(おうきゅう): emergency 緊急(きんきゅう): urgent, pressing, emergency 早急(さっきゅう): urgent 準急(じゅんきゅう): local express (train slower than an express) 急かす(せかす): to hurry, to urge on 急激(きゅうげき): sudden, precipitous, radical 急速(きゅうそく): rapid (e.g. progress) 急に(きゅうに): suddenly 至急(しきゅう): urgent 特急(とっきゅう): limited express (train, faster than an express) 急ぐ(いそぐ): hurry (up) 急(きゅう): urgent 急行(きゅうこう): express train Kunyomi: いそ.ぐ、いそ.ぎ Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 急ぐ (いそ.ぐ)	hurry 急 画数9 1229 Details Story Dictionary 急 hurry Heisig's Bound up . . . broom . . . heart. Koohii #1 She was always bound to a broom, her heart pounding in a hurry to finish before she was punished for being slow. Koohii #2 Fantasia: Bound up brooms out of control send Mickey´s heart racing--he has to hurry and figure out how to stop them before the magician returns! Primitives hurry, bound up, broom, heart 応急(おうきゅう): emergency 緊急(きんきゅう): urgent, pressing, emergency 早急(さっきゅう): urgent 準急(じゅんきゅう): local express (train slower than an express) 急かす(せかす): to hurry, to urge on 急激(きゅうげき): sudden, precipitous, radical 急速(きゅうそく): rapid (e.g. progress) 急に(きゅうに): suddenly 至急(しきゅう): urgent 特急(とっきゅう): limited express (train, faster than an express) 急ぐ(いそぐ): hurry (up) 急(きゅう): urgent 急行(きゅうこう): express train Kunyomi: いそ.ぐ、いそ.ぎ Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 急ぐ (いそ.ぐ)
calm Details Story Dictionary 穏 calm Heisig's Wheat . . . vulture . . . broom . . . heart. Koohii #1 The farmer is calm knowing that his wheat fields are protected from vultures by his strawman with a heart (all the better to do the job properly). Koohii #2 This whole kanji is a picture of calmness. The wheat has been harvested and even the vultures sit calmly watching the humans sweep and clean-up after the harvest is over. Hearts are peaceful and calm at this time of the year. Even the days are calm without storm. Primitives calm, wheat, cereal, hideaway, claw, vulture, broom, heart 穏やか(おだやか): calm, gentle, quiet Kunyomi: おだ.やか Onyomi: オン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 穏やか (おだ.やか)	calm 穏 画数16 1230 Details Story Dictionary 穏 calm Heisig's Wheat . . . vulture . . . broom . . . heart. Koohii #1 The farmer is calm knowing that his wheat fields are protected from vultures by his strawman with a heart (all the better to do the job properly). Koohii #2 This whole kanji is a picture of calmness. The wheat has been harvested and even the vultures sit calmly watching the humans sweep and clean-up after the harvest is over. Hearts are peaceful and calm at this time of the year. Even the days are calm without storm. Primitives calm, wheat, cereal, hideaway, claw, vulture, broom, heart 穏やか(おだやか): calm, gentle, quiet Kunyomi: おだ.やか Onyomi: オン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 穏やか (おだ.やか)
encroach Details Story Dictionary 侵 encroach Heisig's Person . . . broom . . . crown . . . crotch. Gather the elements on the right into a composite image that can serve you in the next two frames. Koohii #1 The parson ENCROACHES on the French maid; driven wild by her little broom, dainty tiara and sinfully short skirt showing her knickers (crotch)! Koohii #2 Mr T. hits a condom salesman (broom + crown + crotch) over the head with a broom because the dude ENCROACHed Mr. T´s privates area during the sale. Primitives encroach, person, French maid, tickle, broom, crown, crotch 侵す(おかす): to invade, to raid, to trespass, to violate, to intrude on 侵略(しんりゃく): aggression, invasion, raid 侵入(しんにゅう): penetration, invasion, raid, aggression, trespass Kunyomi: おか.す Onyomi: シン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 侵す (おか.す)	encroach 侵 画数9 1231 Details Story Dictionary 侵 encroach Heisig's Person . . . broom . . . crown . . . crotch. Gather the elements on the right into a composite image that can serve you in the next two frames. Koohii #1 The parson ENCROACHES on the French maid; driven wild by her little broom, dainty tiara and sinfully short skirt showing her knickers (crotch)! Koohii #2 Mr T. hits a condom salesman (broom + crown + crotch) over the head with a broom because the dude ENCROACHed Mr. T´s privates area during the sale. Primitives encroach, person, French maid, tickle, broom, crown, crotch 侵す(おかす): to invade, to raid, to trespass, to violate, to intrude on 侵略(しんりゃく): aggression, invasion, raid 侵入(しんにゅう): penetration, invasion, raid, aggression, trespass Kunyomi: おか.す Onyomi: シン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 侵す (おか.す)
immersed Details Story Dictionary 浸 immersed Heisig's Water . . . broom . . . crown . . . crotch. Koohii #1 The French maid draws a bath for her amorous master, but slips and falls in - getting immersed. (thanks to Nukemarine for the French maid image!). Koohii #2 After being hit in the head with the broom, the condom salesman IMMERSED his head in some water. Primitives immersed, water, water droplets, water pistol, French maid, tickle, broom, crown, crotch 浸ける(つける): dip in, soak 浸す(ひたす): to soak, to dip, to drench Kunyomi: ひた.す、ひた.る Onyomi: シン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 浸す (ひた.す), 浸る (ひた.る)	immersed 浸 画数10 1232 Details Story Dictionary 浸 immersed Heisig's Water . . . broom . . . crown . . . crotch. Koohii #1 The French maid draws a bath for her amorous master, but slips and falls in - getting immersed. (thanks to Nukemarine for the French maid image!). Koohii #2 After being hit in the head with the broom, the condom salesman IMMERSED his head in some water. Primitives immersed, water, water droplets, water pistol, French maid, tickle, broom, crown, crotch 浸ける(つける): dip in, soak 浸す(ひたす): to soak, to dip, to drench Kunyomi: ひた.す、ひた.る Onyomi: シン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 浸す (ひた.す), 浸る (ひた.る)
lie down Details Story Dictionary 寝 lie down My Story [Crown + turtle + ヨ + lid + against/crotch] Koohii #1 After work, the French maid goes home and lies down with a turtle. Turtle? Well, he´s sloooow and always hard... (thanks to Nukemarine and Wakela!). Koohii #2 After being hit on the head encroach (#1148), the condom salesman goes back to his house to lie down. He hasn´t made a single sale today, so he doesn´t have enough money to buy a pillow. He lies down on his pet turtle and cries himself to sleep. Primitives lie down, house, turtle, French maid, tickle, broom, crown, crotch 寝かせる(ねかせる): to put to bed, to lay down, to ferment 寝台(しんだい): bed, couch 寝坊(ねぼう): sleeping in late 寝巻(ねまき): sleep-wear, nightclothes, pyjamas, nightgown, nightdress 昼寝(ひるね): nap (at home), siesta 朝寝坊(あさねぼう): over sleep 寝る(ねる): go to bed, lie down, sleep Kunyomi: ね.る、ね.かす、い.ぬ、みたまや、や.める Onyomi: シン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 寝かす (ね.かす), 寝る (ね.る)	lie down 寝 画数13 1233 Details Story Dictionary 寝 lie down My Story [Crown + turtle + ヨ + lid + against/crotch] Koohii #1 After work, the French maid goes home and lies down with a turtle. Turtle? Well, he´s sloooow and always hard... (thanks to Nukemarine and Wakela!). Koohii #2 After being hit on the head encroach (#1148), the condom salesman goes back to his house to lie down. He hasn´t made a single sale today, so he doesn´t have enough money to buy a pillow. He lies down on his pet turtle and cries himself to sleep. Primitives lie down, house, turtle, French maid, tickle, broom, crown, crotch 寝かせる(ねかせる): to put to bed, to lay down, to ferment 寝台(しんだい): bed, couch 寝坊(ねぼう): sleeping in late 寝巻(ねまき): sleep-wear, nightclothes, pyjamas, nightgown, nightdress 昼寝(ひるね): nap (at home), siesta 朝寝坊(あさねぼう): over sleep 寝る(ねる): go to bed, lie down, sleep Kunyomi: ね.る、ね.かす、い.ぬ、みたまや、や.める Onyomi: シン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 寝かす (ね.かす), 寝る (ね.る)
lady Details Story Dictionary 婦 lady Heisig's Woman . . . broom . . . apron. Koohii #1 In high society, a lady is a woman who never touches a broom or an apron. Koohii #2 The LADY of the house is nothing more than a WOMAN who´s a HOUSEWIFE (BROOM and APRON anyone?). Primitives lady, woman, feather duster, broom, apron, crown, towel 産婦人科(さんふじんか): maternity and gynecology department 主婦(しゅふ): housewife, mistress 夫婦(ふうふ): married couple, spouses, husband and wife, couple, pair 婦人(ふじん): woman, female 看護婦(かんごふ): nurse Kunyomi: よめ Onyomi: フ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	lady 婦 画数11 1234 Details Story Dictionary 婦 lady Heisig's Woman . . . broom . . . apron. Koohii #1 In high society, a lady is a woman who never touches a broom or an apron. Koohii #2 The LADY of the house is nothing more than a WOMAN who´s a HOUSEWIFE (BROOM and APRON anyone?). Primitives lady, woman, feather duster, broom, apron, crown, towel 産婦人科(さんふじんか): maternity and gynecology department 主婦(しゅふ): housewife, mistress 夫婦(ふうふ): married couple, spouses, husband and wife, couple, pair 婦人(ふじん): woman, female 看護婦(かんごふ): nurse Kunyomi: よめ Onyomi: フ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
sweep Details Story Dictionary 掃 sweep Heisig's Fingers . . . broom . . . apron. Koohii #1 Whether I SWEEP something away with my FINGERS or my BROOM, I should always wear my APRON. Koohii #2 FINGERS of the HOUSEWIFE (in itself, holding a BROOM, with an APRON) busily SWEEP the floor. Primitives sweep, finger, fingers, feather duster, broom, apron, crown, towel 清掃(せいそう): cleaning 掃く(はく): to brush, sweep, gather up 掃除(そうじ): cleaning, sweeping Kunyomi: は.く Onyomi: ソウ、シュ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 掃く (は.く)	sweep 掃 画数11 1235 Details Story Dictionary 掃 sweep Heisig's Fingers . . . broom . . . apron. Koohii #1 Whether I SWEEP something away with my FINGERS or my BROOM, I should always wear my APRON. Koohii #2 FINGERS of the HOUSEWIFE (in itself, holding a BROOM, with an APRON) busily SWEEP the floor. Primitives sweep, finger, fingers, feather duster, broom, apron, crown, towel 清掃(せいそう): cleaning 掃く(はく): to brush, sweep, gather up 掃除(そうじ): cleaning, sweeping Kunyomi: は.く Onyomi: ソウ、シュ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 掃く (は.く)
"hit Details Story Dictionary 当 hit Heisig's Little . . . broom. Koohii #1 Some mothers use a small broom to hit their children when they misbehave. Koohii #2 Here is a weird carnival game where you hold a broom like a javelin and throw it, trying to hit the center of a very small target. The target is so small, in fact, that if someone does manage to hit it, the operator turns in surprise and says, ""Whoa, really?! (本当?!)"". Primitives hit, small, broom 当たり(あたり): hit, success, reaching the mark, per ..., vicinity, neighborhood 当たり前(あたりまえ): usual, common, ordinary, natural, reasonable, obvious 当て(あて): object, aim, end, hopes, expectations 当て字(あてじ): phonetic-equivalent character, substitute character 当てはまる(あてはまる): to apply (a rule) 当てはめる(あてはめる): to apply, to adapt 該当(がいとう): corresponding, answering to, coming under 正当(せいとう): just, justifiable, right, due, proper, equitable, reasonable, legitimate, lawful 手当て(てあて): allowance, compensation, treatment, medical care 当選(とうせん): being elected, winning the prize 当人(とうにん): the one concerned, the said person 日当(にっとう): daily allowance 不当(ふとう): injustice, impropriety, unreasonableness, undeservedness, unfair, invalid 本当(ほんとう): truth, reality 割り当て(わりあて): allotment, assignment, allocation, quota, rationing 当たる(あたる): be hit, be successful, confront, lie (in the direction of), undertake, be equivalent to, be applicable, be assigned 当てる(あてる): to hit 見当(けんとう): be found, aim, mark, estimate, guess, approximation, direction, 心当たり(こころあたり): having some knowledge of, happening to know 相当(そうとう): suitable, fair, tolerable, proper, extremely 妥当(だとう): valid, proper, right, appropriate 担当(たんとう): (in) charge 突き当たり(つきあたり): end (e.g. of street) 突き当たる(つきあたる): run into, collide with 当時(とうじ): at that time, in those days 当日(とうじつ): appointed day 当番(とうばん): being on duty 日当たり(ひあたり): exposure to the sun, sunny place 弁当(べんとう): lunch box 適当(てきとう): appropriate お弁当(おべんとう): lunch box Kunyomi: あ.たる、あ.たり、あ.てる、あ.て、まさ.に、まさ.にべし Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 当たる (あ.たる), 当てる (あ.てる)"	"hit 当 画数6 1236 Details Story Dictionary 当 hit Heisig's Little . . . broom. Koohii #1 Some mothers use a small broom to hit their children when they misbehave. Koohii #2 Here is a weird carnival game where you hold a broom like a javelin and throw it, trying to hit the center of a very small target. The target is so small, in fact, that if someone does manage to hit it, the operator turns in surprise and says, ""Whoa, really?! (本当?!)"". Primitives hit, small, broom 当たり(あたり): hit, success, reaching the mark, per ..., vicinity, neighborhood 当たり前(あたりまえ): usual, common, ordinary, natural, reasonable, obvious 当て(あて): object, aim, end, hopes, expectations 当て字(あてじ): phonetic-equivalent character, substitute character 当てはまる(あてはまる): to apply (a rule) 当てはめる(あてはめる): to apply, to adapt 該当(がいとう): corresponding, answering to, coming under 正当(せいとう): just, justifiable, right, due, proper, equitable, reasonable, legitimate, lawful 手当て(てあて): allowance, compensation, treatment, medical care 当選(とうせん): being elected, winning the prize 当人(とうにん): the one concerned, the said person 日当(にっとう): daily allowance 不当(ふとう): injustice, impropriety, unreasonableness, undeservedness, unfair, invalid 本当(ほんとう): truth, reality 割り当て(わりあて): allotment, assignment, allocation, quota, rationing 当たる(あたる): be hit, be successful, confront, lie (in the direction of), undertake, be equivalent to, be applicable, be assigned 当てる(あてる): to hit 見当(けんとう): be found, aim, mark, estimate, guess, approximation, direction, 心当たり(こころあたり): having some knowledge of, happening to know 相当(そうとう): suitable, fair, tolerable, proper, extremely 妥当(だとう): valid, proper, right, appropriate 担当(たんとう): (in) charge 突き当たり(つきあたり): end (e.g. of street) 突き当たる(つきあたる): run into, collide with 当時(とうじ): at that time, in those days 当日(とうじつ): appointed day 当番(とうばん): being on duty 日当たり(ひあたり): exposure to the sun, sunny place 弁当(べんとう): lunch box 適当(てきとう): appropriate お弁当(おべんとう): lunch box Kunyomi: あ.たる、あ.たり、あ.てる、あ.て、まさ.に、まさ.にべし Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 当たる (あ.たる), 当てる (あ.てる)"
"glossary Details Story Dictionary 彙 glossary Heisig's The top primitive of this character is actually an old form of broom. The remaining elements are: crown . . . fruit. Koohii #1 People who read the glossary are mutually exclusive (exclude the top line of mutually (#757) ) from those who eat crowned fruit イ はりねずみ same kind 語彙. Koohii #2 I was having mutual difficulties in my relationship. She was always the one wearing the crown and I was the one picking the fruit. In order to fix the problem I checked the glossary for ""mutual difficulties"" but found nothing. I guess we´re going to have to mutually end our relationship. Primitives glossary, broken broom, mutual, crown, fruit, rice field, brains, tree, wood, broom* 語彙(ごい): vocabulary, glossary Kunyomi: はりねずみ Onyomi: イ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"glossary 彙 画数13 1237 Details Story Dictionary 彙 glossary Heisig's The top primitive of this character is actually an old form of broom. The remaining elements are: crown . . . fruit. Koohii #1 People who read the glossary are mutually exclusive (exclude the top line of mutually (#757) ) from those who eat crowned fruit イ はりねずみ same kind 語彙. Koohii #2 I was having mutual difficulties in my relationship. She was always the one wearing the crown and I was the one picking the fruit. In order to fix the problem I checked the glossary for ""mutual difficulties"" but found nothing. I guess we´re going to have to mutually end our relationship. Primitives glossary, broken broom, mutual, crown, fruit, rice field, brains, tree, wood, broom* 語彙(ごい): vocabulary, glossary Kunyomi: はりねずみ Onyomi: イ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
contend Details Story Dictionary 争 contend Heisig's Bound up . . . rake. Koohii #1 This can be seen as a Retarius, a roman gladiator. The Retiarius always fought with a net to bound up his opponents, and with a trident, which was able to pierce enemies after tying them. They were terrific contenders, so they were only paired with gladiators specially equipped to fight them. Koohii #2 A boxing ring is bound up by the ropes. The contender is cheating and using a rake. Primitives contend, bound up, rake 争い(あらそい): dispute, strife, quarrel, dissension, conflict, rivalry, contest 抗争(こうそう): dispute, resistance 紛争(ふんそう): dispute, trouble, strife 争う(あらそう): argue, dispute 論争(ろんそう): controversy, dispute 競争(きょうそう): compete 戦争(せんそう): war Kunyomi: あらそ.う、いか.でか Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 争う (あらそ.う)	contend 争 画数6 1238 Details Story Dictionary 争 contend Heisig's Bound up . . . rake. Koohii #1 This can be seen as a Retarius, a roman gladiator. The Retiarius always fought with a net to bound up his opponents, and with a trident, which was able to pierce enemies after tying them. They were terrific contenders, so they were only paired with gladiators specially equipped to fight them. Koohii #2 A boxing ring is bound up by the ropes. The contender is cheating and using a rake. Primitives contend, bound up, rake 争い(あらそい): dispute, strife, quarrel, dissension, conflict, rivalry, contest 抗争(こうそう): dispute, resistance 紛争(ふんそう): dispute, trouble, strife 争う(あらそう): argue, dispute 論争(ろんそう): controversy, dispute 競争(きょうそう): compete 戦争(せんそう): war Kunyomi: あらそ.う、いか.でか Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 争う (あらそ.う)
clean Details Story Dictionary 浄 clean Heisig's Water . . . contend. Koohii #1 Bottled water marketers contend to make their version of tap water sound the cleanest. Koohii #2 The water contends against the dirt in the ultimate battle for cleaninless. Primitives clean, water, water droplets, water pistol, contend, bound up, rake Kunyomi: きよ.める、きよ.い Onyomi: ジョウ、セイ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	clean 浄 画数9 1239 Details Story Dictionary 浄 clean Heisig's Water . . . contend. Koohii #1 Bottled water marketers contend to make their version of tap water sound the cleanest. Koohii #2 The water contends against the dirt in the ultimate battle for cleaninless. Primitives clean, water, water droplets, water pistol, contend, bound up, rake Kunyomi: きよ.める、きよ.い Onyomi: ジョウ、セイ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
matter Details Story Dictionary 事 matter Heisig's This key word here refers to abstract matters. The elements are: one . . . mouth . . . rake. Note how the rake handle reaches out the top and bottom of the character. Koohii #1 I had to take one day off from work due to ´personal matters´ after stepping on a rake and having the handle snap up and smack me across the mouth. I certainly wasn´t going to tell anyone about it. Koohii #2 Just one word about this matter from your mouth and you will find this rake across it. Primitives matter, one, ceiling, mouth, rake 大事(おおごと): important, valuable, serious matter お大事に(おだいじに): Take care of yourself 議事堂(ぎじどう): Diet building 旧事(くじ): past events, bygones 軍事(ぐんじ): military affairs 検事(けんじ): public prosecutor 事(こと): thing, matter, fact, circumstances, business, reason, experience 事柄(ことがら): matter, thing, affair, circumstance 事によると(ことによると): depending on the circumstances 些事(さじ): something small or petty, trifle 事業(じぎょう): project, enterprise, business, industry, operations 事項(じこう): matter, item, facts 事前(じぜん): prior, beforehand, in advance 従事(じゅうじ): engaging, pursuing, following 食事(しょくじ): meal 百科事典(ひゃっかじてん): encyclopedia 返事(へんじ): reply, answer 家事(かじ): housework, domestic chores 記事(きじ): article, news story, report, account 行事(ぎょうじ): event, function 刑事(けいじ): criminal case, (police) detective 工事(こうじ): construction work 事件(じけん): event, affair, incident, case, plot, trouble, scandal 事実(じじつ): fact, truth, reality 事情(じじょう): circumstances, consideration, conditions, situation, reasons 事態(じたい): situation, present state of affairs, circumstances 事務(じむ): business, office work 炊事(すいじ): cooking, culinary arts 知事(ちじ): prefectural governor 出来事(できごと): incident, affair, happening, event 判事(はんじ): judge, judiciary 無事(ぶじ): safety, peace, quietness 見事(みごと): splendid, magnificent, beautiful, admirable 物事(ものごと): things, everything 領事(りょうじ): consul 火事(かじ): fire 事故(じこ): accident 事務所(じむしょ): office 大事(だいじ): important 用事(ようじ): business, errand 仕事(しごと): work, occupation, employment Kunyomi: こと、つか.う、つか.える Onyomi: ジ、ズ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 事物 (じぶつ), 無事 (ぶじ), 師事 (しじ), 事 (こと)	matter 事 画数8 1240 Details Story Dictionary 事 matter Heisig's This key word here refers to abstract matters. The elements are: one . . . mouth . . . rake. Note how the rake handle reaches out the top and bottom of the character. Koohii #1 I had to take one day off from work due to ´personal matters´ after stepping on a rake and having the handle snap up and smack me across the mouth. I certainly wasn´t going to tell anyone about it. Koohii #2 Just one word about this matter from your mouth and you will find this rake across it. Primitives matter, one, ceiling, mouth, rake 大事(おおごと): important, valuable, serious matter お大事に(おだいじに): Take care of yourself 議事堂(ぎじどう): Diet building 旧事(くじ): past events, bygones 軍事(ぐんじ): military affairs 検事(けんじ): public prosecutor 事(こと): thing, matter, fact, circumstances, business, reason, experience 事柄(ことがら): matter, thing, affair, circumstance 事によると(ことによると): depending on the circumstances 些事(さじ): something small or petty, trifle 事業(じぎょう): project, enterprise, business, industry, operations 事項(じこう): matter, item, facts 事前(じぜん): prior, beforehand, in advance 従事(じゅうじ): engaging, pursuing, following 食事(しょくじ): meal 百科事典(ひゃっかじてん): encyclopedia 返事(へんじ): reply, answer 家事(かじ): housework, domestic chores 記事(きじ): article, news story, report, account 行事(ぎょうじ): event, function 刑事(けいじ): criminal case, (police) detective 工事(こうじ): construction work 事件(じけん): event, affair, incident, case, plot, trouble, scandal 事実(じじつ): fact, truth, reality 事情(じじょう): circumstances, consideration, conditions, situation, reasons 事態(じたい): situation, present state of affairs, circumstances 事務(じむ): business, office work 炊事(すいじ): cooking, culinary arts 知事(ちじ): prefectural governor 出来事(できごと): incident, affair, happening, event 判事(はんじ): judge, judiciary 無事(ぶじ): safety, peace, quietness 見事(みごと): splendid, magnificent, beautiful, admirable 物事(ものごと): things, everything 領事(りょうじ): consul 火事(かじ): fire 事故(じこ): accident 事務所(じむしょ): office 大事(だいじ): important 用事(ようじ): business, errand 仕事(しごと): work, occupation, employment Kunyomi: こと、つか.う、つか.える Onyomi: ジ、ズ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 事物 (じぶつ), 無事 (ぶじ), 師事 (しじ), 事 (こと)
"T'ang Details Story Dictionary 唐 T'ang Heisig's The key word here refers of course to the T'ang Dynasty in China (and not to the name of the drink astronauts take with them into outer space, though this could be useful for the next frame). Its elements: cave . . . rake . . . mouth. Koohii #1 Two archeologists are in a cave looking at Chinese artifacts from various eras. One picks up a rake and says, ""What about this – T´ang, do you think?"" The second puts the rake in his mouth and answers, ""Yes, it does tang a bit"". Koohii #2 Screw it, this character refers to the drink. The powdery orange substance is actually found on the floor of tropical caves, where trained aboriginal peoples use wooden rakes to rake the Tang into a pile before putting a bit of it in their mouths to see if it´s tasty or not. Primitives T’ang, cave, rake, mouth Kunyomi: から Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 唐 (から)"	"T'ang 唐 画数10 1241 Details Story Dictionary 唐 T'ang Heisig's The key word here refers of course to the T'ang Dynasty in China (and not to the name of the drink astronauts take with them into outer space, though this could be useful for the next frame). Its elements: cave . . . rake . . . mouth. Koohii #1 Two archeologists are in a cave looking at Chinese artifacts from various eras. One picks up a rake and says, ""What about this – T´ang, do you think?"" The second puts the rake in his mouth and answers, ""Yes, it does tang a bit"". Koohii #2 Screw it, this character refers to the drink. The powdery orange substance is actually found on the floor of tropical caves, where trained aboriginal peoples use wooden rakes to rake the Tang into a pile before putting a bit of it in their mouths to see if it´s tasty or not. Primitives T’ang, cave, rake, mouth Kunyomi: から Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 唐 (から)"
sugar Details Story Dictionary 糖 sugar Heisig's Rice . . . T'ang. Koohii #1 Sugar made from rice has a tangy flavour. Koohii #2 The T´ang are the ones who began using sugar in China--of course, the first thing they tried it on was rice. Primitives sugar, rice, T’ang, cave, rake, mouth 砂糖(さとう): sugar Kunyomi: Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	sugar 糖 画数16 1242 Details Story Dictionary 糖 sugar Heisig's Rice . . . T'ang. Koohii #1 Sugar made from rice has a tangy flavour. Koohii #2 The T´ang are the ones who began using sugar in China--of course, the first thing they tried it on was rice. Primitives sugar, rice, T’ang, cave, rake, mouth 砂糖(さとう): sugar Kunyomi: Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
sane Details Story Dictionary 康 sane Heisig's Cave . . . sieve. Koohii #1 A psychiatric hospital is located in a CAVE. To determine, which patients are sane and can be released, they are given a SIEVE and asked to empty a bathtub (the sane ones take out the plug and get the water out with ease). Koohii #2 People on the cave age became more sane after they started using sieves to avoid eating harmful things with their grains. (This kanji is almost exclusively used to write 健康, health). Primitives ease, sane, cave, sieve, rake, grains of rice 健康(けんこう): health, sound, wholesome Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	sane 康 画数11 1243 Details Story Dictionary 康 sane Heisig's Cave . . . sieve. Koohii #1 A psychiatric hospital is located in a CAVE. To determine, which patients are sane and can be released, they are given a SIEVE and asked to empty a bathtub (the sane ones take out the plug and get the water out with ease). Koohii #2 People on the cave age became more sane after they started using sieves to avoid eating harmful things with their grains. (This kanji is almost exclusively used to write 健康, health). Primitives ease, sane, cave, sieve, rake, grains of rice 健康(けんこう): health, sound, wholesome Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"apprehend Details Story Dictionary 逮 apprehend Heisig's Think of apprehending criminals. The elements are: sieve . . . road. Koohii #1 Think police roadblocks. They act like road sieves, letting good people through but apprehending criminals. Koohii #2 In Space Balls, they were combing the desert in order to apprehend Lone Star. Picture Dark Helmet saying ""Combing the desert failed, we must now sieve the road!"". Primitives apprehend, sieve, rake, grains of rice, road 逮捕(たいほ): arrest, apprehension, capture Kunyomi: Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"apprehend 逮 画数11 1244 Details Story Dictionary 逮 apprehend Heisig's Think of apprehending criminals. The elements are: sieve . . . road. Koohii #1 Think police roadblocks. They act like road sieves, letting good people through but apprehending criminals. Koohii #2 In Space Balls, they were combing the desert in order to apprehend Lone Star. Picture Dark Helmet saying ""Combing the desert failed, we must now sieve the road!"". Primitives apprehend, sieve, rake, grains of rice, road 逮捕(たいほ): arrest, apprehension, capture Kunyomi: Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"Italy Details Story Dictionary 伊 Italy Heisig's Used chiefly in proper names, and given the sound ""i,"" this kanji can be remembered as an abbreviation of Italy, for which it is still used today in Japan. Its primitives: person . . . mop. Koohii #1 The ""boot"" of Italy has gotten Europe all muddy. Who else could mop it up but Mr T? Koohii #2 Here I have Mister T cleaning up with a mop, a real mess of spaghetti, in front of the Piza (in Italy). Primitives italy, person, mop 伊井(いい): that one, Italy Kunyomi: かれ Onyomi: イ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"Italy 伊 画数6 1245 Details Story Dictionary 伊 Italy Heisig's Used chiefly in proper names, and given the sound ""i,"" this kanji can be remembered as an abbreviation of Italy, for which it is still used today in Japan. Its primitives: person . . . mop. Koohii #1 The ""boot"" of Italy has gotten Europe all muddy. Who else could mop it up but Mr T? Koohii #2 Here I have Mister T cleaning up with a mop, a real mess of spaghetti, in front of the Piza (in Italy). Primitives italy, person, mop 伊井(いい): that one, Italy Kunyomi: かれ Onyomi: イ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"old boy Details Story Dictionary 君 old boy Heisig's The somewhat highbrow British term of address is chosen hereto represent the kanji for a form of address used towards one's juniors. It is composed of: mop . . . mouth. Koohii #1 There´s a tendancy in Japan to make the younger members (kouhai) clean up after the older members (senpai) of a group, which results in a lot of grumbling and whining. ""Well old boy,"" a senpai might say, ""If you did as much work with the mop as you do with your mouth, you would have been done an hour ago"". Koohii #2 The Beatles, english old boys, had hairs like mop and a good singing mouth. Primitives old boy, mop, mouth 君(くん): Mr (junior), master, boy 君主(くんしゅ): ruler, monarch 諸君(しょくん): Gentlemen!, Ladies! 君(きみ): you Kunyomi: きみ、-ぎみ Onyomi: クン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 君 (きみ)"	"old boy 君 画数7 1246 Details Story Dictionary 君 old boy Heisig's The somewhat highbrow British term of address is chosen hereto represent the kanji for a form of address used towards one's juniors. It is composed of: mop . . . mouth. Koohii #1 There´s a tendancy in Japan to make the younger members (kouhai) clean up after the older members (senpai) of a group, which results in a lot of grumbling and whining. ""Well old boy,"" a senpai might say, ""If you did as much work with the mop as you do with your mouth, you would have been done an hour ago"". Koohii #2 The Beatles, english old boys, had hairs like mop and a good singing mouth. Primitives old boy, mop, mouth 君(くん): Mr (junior), master, boy 君主(くんしゅ): ruler, monarch 諸君(しょくん): Gentlemen!, Ladies! 君(きみ): you Kunyomi: きみ、-ぎみ Onyomi: クン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 君 (きみ)"
"flock Details Story Dictionary 群 flock Heisig's Old boys . . . sheep. Koohii #1 Good ol´ boys are like sheep; they tend to flock together. Koohii #2 A little girl herder calls out, ""羊君、きて！"" to the sheeps and they flock to her at once. Primitives flock, old boy, mop, mouth, sheep 群(ぐん): group (math) 群集(ぐんしゅう): (social) group, crowd, throng, mob, multitude 群がる(むらがる): to swarm, to gather 群れ(むれ): group, crowd, flock, herd, bevy, school, swarm, cluster (of stars), clump Kunyomi: む.れる、む.れ、むら、むら.がる Onyomi: グン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 群れ (む.れ), 群れる (む.れる)"	"flock 群 画数13 1247 Details Story Dictionary 群 flock Heisig's Old boys . . . sheep. Koohii #1 Good ol´ boys are like sheep; they tend to flock together. Koohii #2 A little girl herder calls out, ""羊君、きて！"" to the sheeps and they flock to her at once. Primitives flock, old boy, mop, mouth, sheep 群(ぐん): group (math) 群集(ぐんしゅう): (social) group, crowd, throng, mob, multitude 群がる(むらがる): to swarm, to gather 群れ(むれ): group, crowd, flock, herd, bevy, school, swarm, cluster (of stars), clump Kunyomi: む.れる、む.れ、むら、むら.がる Onyomi: グン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 群れ (む.れ), 群れる (む.れる)"
"-proof Details Story Dictionary 耐 -proof Heisig's The key word is a suffix used to indicate ""safe from"" or ""protected against,"" as in the words rustproof, waterproof, and fireproof. It is composed of: comb . . . glue. Koohii #1 [akrodha] My comb is rust-proof, water-proof, and fire-proof. But unfortunately it is not idiot-proof--and I glued it to myself. Koohii #2 I spent $100 recently on this excellent rust-proof, water-proof, fire-proof comb. But two days after having bought it, I left it in my back pocket and sat down, snapping this expensive comb in half! I glued it back together, but now every time I try to comb through my thick hair, it just breaks apart again. I guess my comb is also glue-proof. Primitives proof, comb, glue 耐える(たえる): to bear, to endure Kunyomi: た.える Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 耐える (た.える)"	"-proof 耐 画数9 1248 Details Story Dictionary 耐 -proof Heisig's The key word is a suffix used to indicate ""safe from"" or ""protected against,"" as in the words rustproof, waterproof, and fireproof. It is composed of: comb . . . glue. Koohii #1 [akrodha] My comb is rust-proof, water-proof, and fire-proof. But unfortunately it is not idiot-proof--and I glued it to myself. Koohii #2 I spent $100 recently on this excellent rust-proof, water-proof, fire-proof comb. But two days after having bought it, I left it in my back pocket and sat down, snapping this expensive comb in half! I glued it back together, but now every time I try to comb through my thick hair, it just breaks apart again. I guess my comb is also glue-proof. Primitives proof, comb, glue 耐える(たえる): to bear, to endure Kunyomi: た.える Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 耐える (た.える)"
"demand Details Story Dictionary 需 demand Heisig's The sense of demand is best captured by thinking of the economic principle of ""supply and demand."" The primitives: rain . . . comb. Koohii #1 Supply and demand is a simple concept: when it rains, the demand for combs goes up to deal with wet hair. Koohii #2 If it´s raining combs, then the demand for them sure does drop. Primitives demand, rain, weather, comb 需要(じゅよう): demand, request 必需品(ひつじゅひん): necessities, necessary article, requisite, essential Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジュ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"demand 需 画数14 1249 Details Story Dictionary 需 demand Heisig's The sense of demand is best captured by thinking of the economic principle of ""supply and demand."" The primitives: rain . . . comb. Koohii #1 Supply and demand is a simple concept: when it rains, the demand for combs goes up to deal with wet hair. Koohii #2 If it´s raining combs, then the demand for them sure does drop. Primitives demand, rain, weather, comb 需要(じゅよう): demand, request 必需品(ひつじゅひん): necessities, necessary article, requisite, essential Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジュ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"Confucian Details Story Dictionary 儒 Confucian Heisig's Person . . . demand. Koohii #1 No more Confucian jibba-jabba! I demand you tell me why it´s raining combs!"". Koohii #2 One day, Mr. T started reading the little proverbs he found in fortune cookies, and with this newfound wisdom he became a Confucian scholar. He was suddenly in high demand as people came from all over to ask for his sage advice, immensely satisfied with suggestions such as, ""You will find happiness with a new love"". Primitives confucian, person, demand, rain, weather, comb Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジュ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"Confucian 儒 画数16 1250 Details Story Dictionary 儒 Confucian Heisig's Person . . . demand. Koohii #1 No more Confucian jibba-jabba! I demand you tell me why it´s raining combs!"". Koohii #2 One day, Mr. T started reading the little proverbs he found in fortune cookies, and with this newfound wisdom he became a Confucian scholar. He was suddenly in high demand as people came from all over to ask for his sage advice, immensely satisfied with suggestions such as, ""You will find happiness with a new love"". Primitives confucian, person, demand, rain, weather, comb Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジュ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
edge Details Story Dictionary 端 edge My Story *Stand* on the edge of the *mountain* and *comb* your hair (FYI you are super nonchalant) Koohii #1 Have you ever seen those shots in movies where the hero is standing at the edge of a sheer mountain face, hair blowing in the wind? It probably wouldn´t seem so heroic if you saw him ten minutes earlier, when a crew of stylists was carefully combing his hair so it would fall perfectly. Koohii #2 When you stand a comb on its edge, it looks like the mountain (#768) kanji. Primitives edge, vase, stand up, pick-axe, mountain, comb 極端(きょくたん): extreme, extremity 半端(はんぱ): remnant, fragment, incomplete set, fraction, odd sum, incompleteness 先端(せんたん): pointed end, tip, fine point, spearhead, cusp, vanguard, advanced, leading edge 途端(とたん): just (now, at the moment, etc.) 端(はし): edge, tip, margin, point, end (e.g. of street) Kunyomi: はし、は、はた、-ばた、はな Onyomi: タン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 端 (は), 端 (はし), 端 (はた)	edge 端 画数14 1251 Details Story Dictionary 端 edge My Story *Stand* on the edge of the *mountain* and *comb* your hair (FYI you are super nonchalant) Koohii #1 Have you ever seen those shots in movies where the hero is standing at the edge of a sheer mountain face, hair blowing in the wind? It probably wouldn´t seem so heroic if you saw him ten minutes earlier, when a crew of stylists was carefully combing his hair so it would fall perfectly. Koohii #2 When you stand a comb on its edge, it looks like the mountain (#768) kanji. Primitives edge, vase, stand up, pick-axe, mountain, comb 極端(きょくたん): extreme, extremity 半端(はんぱ): remnant, fragment, incomplete set, fraction, odd sum, incompleteness 先端(せんたん): pointed end, tip, fine point, spearhead, cusp, vanguard, advanced, leading edge 途端(とたん): just (now, at the moment, etc.) 端(はし): edge, tip, margin, point, end (e.g. of street) Kunyomi: はし、は、はた、-ばた、はな Onyomi: タン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 端 (は), 端 (はし), 端 (はた)
both Details Story Dictionary 両 both My Story 1. The bull dog's face has a *nail* shape with *George Micheal's mustache* and *a mountain* for a nose. 2. Looks like a bull dogs face; Koohii #1 Primatives celing; belt; mountain as per Cumulative Errata. See volfy post for link. Both effective ways to commit suicide, hang your self from the celing with your belt or jump off a mountain. Koohii #2 Both of Tiger Wood´s initials is the logo on his belt... 　　　　　　　　RTK2:　リョウ　両親　りょうしん(one´s parents). Primitives both, street, nail, spike, belt, shovel 両極(りょうきょく): both extremities, north and south poles, positive and negative poles 両立(りょうりつ): compatibility, coexistence, standing together 両替(りょうがえ): change, money exchange 両側(りょうがわ): both sides 両方(りょうほう): both 両親(りょうしん): parents, both parents Kunyomi: てる、ふたつ Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	both 両 画数6 1252 Details Story Dictionary 両 both My Story 1. The bull dog's face has a *nail* shape with *George Micheal's mustache* and *a mountain* for a nose. 2. Looks like a bull dogs face; Koohii #1 Primatives celing; belt; mountain as per Cumulative Errata. See volfy post for link. Both effective ways to commit suicide, hang your self from the celing with your belt or jump off a mountain. Koohii #2 Both of Tiger Wood´s initials is the logo on his belt... 　　　　　　　　RTK2:　リョウ　両親　りょうしん(one´s parents). Primitives both, street, nail, spike, belt, shovel 両極(りょうきょく): both extremities, north and south poles, positive and negative poles 両立(りょうりつ): compatibility, coexistence, standing together 両替(りょうがえ): change, money exchange 両側(りょうがわ): both sides 両方(りょうほう): both 両親(りょうしん): parents, both parents Kunyomi: てる、ふたつ Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
full Details Story Dictionary 満 full Heisig's Water . . . flowers . . . both. Given the abstract nature of this last primitive, you may want to borrow the image from the previous frame. Koohii #1 Add water THEN the flowers. With both the vase will be full. Koohii #2 I was thirsty so I gulped down the water. Then I realized I was also hungry. So I ate the flowers. Yes, I am responsible for both the missing water and the missing flowers. Yes, I´m afraid both. Am I still hungry or thirsty? Thank you for asking! How kind! But no, I feel quite full now. Primitives full, water, water droplets, water pistol, flowers, both, street, nail, spike, belt, shovel 円満(えんまん): perfection, harmony, peace, smoothness, completeness, satisfaction, integrity 満月(まんげつ): full moon 満場(まんじょう): unanimous, whole audience 満たす(みたす): to satisfy, to ingratiate, to fill, to fulfill 不満(ふまん): dissatisfaction, displeasure, discontent, complaints, unhappiness 満員(まんいん): full house, no vacancy, sold out, standing room only, full (of people), crowded 満足(まんぞく): satisfaction 満点(まんてん): perfect score 満ちる(みちる): be full, rise (tide), mature, expire 未満(みまん): less than, insufficient Kunyomi: み.ちる、み.つ、み.たす Onyomi: マン、バン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 満たす (み.たす), 満ちる (み.ちる)	full 満 画数12 1253 Details Story Dictionary 満 full Heisig's Water . . . flowers . . . both. Given the abstract nature of this last primitive, you may want to borrow the image from the previous frame. Koohii #1 Add water THEN the flowers. With both the vase will be full. Koohii #2 I was thirsty so I gulped down the water. Then I realized I was also hungry. So I ate the flowers. Yes, I am responsible for both the missing water and the missing flowers. Yes, I´m afraid both. Am I still hungry or thirsty? Thank you for asking! How kind! But no, I feel quite full now. Primitives full, water, water droplets, water pistol, flowers, both, street, nail, spike, belt, shovel 円満(えんまん): perfection, harmony, peace, smoothness, completeness, satisfaction, integrity 満月(まんげつ): full moon 満場(まんじょう): unanimous, whole audience 満たす(みたす): to satisfy, to ingratiate, to fill, to fulfill 不満(ふまん): dissatisfaction, displeasure, discontent, complaints, unhappiness 満員(まんいん): full house, no vacancy, sold out, standing room only, full (of people), crowded 満足(まんぞく): satisfaction 満点(まんてん): perfect score 満ちる(みちる): be full, rise (tide), mature, expire 未満(みまん): less than, insufficient Kunyomi: み.ちる、み.つ、み.たす Onyomi: マン、バン Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 満たす (み.たす), 満ちる (み.ちる)
brush-stroke Details Story Dictionary 画 brush-stroke Heisig's In forming an image for the key word, it is helpful to know that this kanji is used for artistic representations (like a completed painting), and as a counter for the number of brush-strokes in a character (as, for instance, in Indexes II and III at the end of this book). Its elements are: ceiling . . . sprout . . . shovel. Koohii #1 You decide one day to paint a kanji on your ceiling. Unfortunately, you don’t have a brush, so, being innovative, you use a sprout. Knowing it could be messy, you search for a drop-cloth, but can’t find one. Instead, you put a shovel down on the floor to catch any drips resulting from the BRUSH-STROKEs. Koohii #2 To paint a kanji in your ceiling with only natural materials, you use a sprout as a brush and shovel some dirt to use as paint for your strokes. [modified from johnskb´s]. Primitives brush-stroke, one, ceiling, sprout, shoot, shovel 画(かく): stroke 画期(かっき): epoch-making 企画(きかく): planning, project 区画(くかく): division, section, compartment, boundary, area, block 版画(はんが): art print 絵画(かいが): picture 画家(がか): painter, artist 計画(けいかく): plan 漫画(まんが): cartoon 映画(えいが): movie, film 映画館(えいがかん): movie theatre (theater), cinema Kunyomi: えが.く、かく.する、かぎ.る、はかりごと、はか.る Onyomi: ガ、カク、エ、カイ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 画家 (がか), 図画 (ずが), 映画 (えいが)	brush-stroke 画 画数8 1254 Details Story Dictionary 画 brush-stroke Heisig's In forming an image for the key word, it is helpful to know that this kanji is used for artistic representations (like a completed painting), and as a counter for the number of brush-strokes in a character (as, for instance, in Indexes II and III at the end of this book). Its elements are: ceiling . . . sprout . . . shovel. Koohii #1 You decide one day to paint a kanji on your ceiling. Unfortunately, you don’t have a brush, so, being innovative, you use a sprout. Knowing it could be messy, you search for a drop-cloth, but can’t find one. Instead, you put a shovel down on the floor to catch any drips resulting from the BRUSH-STROKEs. Koohii #2 To paint a kanji in your ceiling with only natural materials, you use a sprout as a brush and shovel some dirt to use as paint for your strokes. [modified from johnskb´s]. Primitives brush-stroke, one, ceiling, sprout, shoot, shovel 画(かく): stroke 画期(かっき): epoch-making 企画(きかく): planning, project 区画(くかく): division, section, compartment, boundary, area, block 版画(はんが): art print 絵画(かいが): picture 画家(がか): painter, artist 計画(けいかく): plan 漫画(まんが): cartoon 映画(えいが): movie, film 映画館(えいがかん): movie theatre (theater), cinema Kunyomi: えが.く、かく.する、かぎ.る、はかりごと、はか.る Onyomi: ガ、カク、エ、カイ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 画家 (がか), 図画 (ずが), 映画 (えいが)
tooth Details Story Dictionary 歯 tooth Heisig's Footprint . . . rice . . . shovel. Koohii #1 Stop shoveling rice into your mouth, you´ll hurt a tooth! Use chopsticks instead. Koohii #2 My dentist used his foot and a shovel to dislodge the rice stuck between my teeth. Primitives tooth, stop, footprint, bag of rice, shovel 歯科(しか): dentistry 歯車(はぐるま): gear, cog-wheel 歯磨き(はみがき): dentifrice, toothpaste 虫歯(むしば): cavity, tooth decay, decayed tooth 歯医者(はいしゃ): dentist 歯(は): tooth Kunyomi: よわい、は、よわ.い、よわい.する Onyomi: シ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 歯 (は)	tooth 歯 画数12 1255 Details Story Dictionary 歯 tooth Heisig's Footprint . . . rice . . . shovel. Koohii #1 Stop shoveling rice into your mouth, you´ll hurt a tooth! Use chopsticks instead. Koohii #2 My dentist used his foot and a shovel to dislodge the rice stuck between my teeth. Primitives tooth, stop, footprint, bag of rice, shovel 歯科(しか): dentistry 歯車(はぐるま): gear, cog-wheel 歯磨き(はみがき): dentifrice, toothpaste 虫歯(むしば): cavity, tooth decay, decayed tooth 歯医者(はいしゃ): dentist 歯(は): tooth Kunyomi: よわい、は、よわ.い、よわい.する Onyomi: シ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 歯 (は)
"bend Details Story Dictionary 曲 bend Heisig's Picture yourself grabbing hold of the two strokes poking out the top of the kanji and wrenching them apart, thus giving the sense of bend. If you think of them as deriving from the element for brains beneath (of course, the middle stroke has been reduplicated and pulled out to where it can be grabbed hold of), you can associate the key word with bending someone's mind to your own point of view. Koohii #1 It looks like the mouth of Bender the robot, from Matt Groening´s animated series ""Futurama"". Thus, I use the character Bender the robot as a primitive. Koohii #2 Also means ""melody"". Think of it as a pictogram of a guitar where you have to bend the strings to make a melody. Primitives bend, rice field, brains, stick 婉曲(えんきょく): euphemistic, circumlocution, roundabout, indirect, insinuating 戯曲(ぎきょく): play, drama 曲(きょく): tune, piece of music 曲がる(まがる): to turn, to bend 曲線(きょくせん): curve 作曲(さっきょく): composition, setting (of music) 曲げる(まげる): bend, lean, be crooked 曲る(まがる): curve, be bent, be crooked, turn Kunyomi: ま.がる、ま.げる Onyomi: キョク Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 曲がる (ま.がる), 曲げる (ま.げる)"	"bend 曲 画数6 1256 Details Story Dictionary 曲 bend Heisig's Picture yourself grabbing hold of the two strokes poking out the top of the kanji and wrenching them apart, thus giving the sense of bend. If you think of them as deriving from the element for brains beneath (of course, the middle stroke has been reduplicated and pulled out to where it can be grabbed hold of), you can associate the key word with bending someone's mind to your own point of view. Koohii #1 It looks like the mouth of Bender the robot, from Matt Groening´s animated series ""Futurama"". Thus, I use the character Bender the robot as a primitive. Koohii #2 Also means ""melody"". Think of it as a pictogram of a guitar where you have to bend the strings to make a melody. Primitives bend, rice field, brains, stick 婉曲(えんきょく): euphemistic, circumlocution, roundabout, indirect, insinuating 戯曲(ぎきょく): play, drama 曲(きょく): tune, piece of music 曲がる(まがる): to turn, to bend 曲線(きょくせん): curve 作曲(さっきょく): composition, setting (of music) 曲げる(まげる): bend, lean, be crooked 曲る(まがる): curve, be bent, be crooked, turn Kunyomi: ま.がる、ま.げる Onyomi: キョク Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 曲がる (ま.がる), 曲げる (ま.げる)"
cadet Details Story Dictionary 曹 cadet Heisig's This character is written in the order of its elements: one . . . bend . . . sun. Koohii #1 A space cadet eager to make one bend around the sun. (a dangerous maneuver). Koohii #2 Bender lasted just one day in the space cadets. Primitives cadet, one, bend, sun, day Kunyomi: つかさ、ともがら、へや Onyomi: ソウ、ゾウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	cadet 曹 画数11 1257 Details Story Dictionary 曹 cadet Heisig's This character is written in the order of its elements: one . . . bend . . . sun. Koohii #1 A space cadet eager to make one bend around the sun. (a dangerous maneuver). Koohii #2 Bender lasted just one day in the space cadets. Primitives cadet, one, bend, sun, day Kunyomi: つかさ、ともがら、へや Onyomi: ソウ、ゾウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"encounter Details Story Dictionary 遭 encounter Heisig's Cadet . . . road. Koohii #1 Close encounters of the third kind. The space cadet encounters aliens on the road. Koohii #2 Bender the cadet (see frame 1172) has an ""encounter of the third kind"" on the road. Reference to Steven Spielberg´s 1977 movie ""Close Encounters of the Third Kind"". Also a reference to popular stories of people reportedly chased by UFO´s while driving on the road. Primitives encounter, cadet, one, bend, sun, day, road 遭難(そうなん): disaster, shipwreck, accident 遭う(あう): meet, encounter (often something unpleasant) Kunyomi: あ.う、あ.わせる Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 遭う (あ.う)"	"encounter 遭 画数14 1258 Details Story Dictionary 遭 encounter Heisig's Cadet . . . road. Koohii #1 Close encounters of the third kind. The space cadet encounters aliens on the road. Koohii #2 Bender the cadet (see frame 1172) has an ""encounter of the third kind"" on the road. Reference to Steven Spielberg´s 1977 movie ""Close Encounters of the Third Kind"". Also a reference to popular stories of people reportedly chased by UFO´s while driving on the road. Primitives encounter, cadet, one, bend, sun, day, road 遭難(そうなん): disaster, shipwreck, accident 遭う(あう): meet, encounter (often something unpleasant) Kunyomi: あ.う、あ.わせる Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 遭う (あ.う)"
rowing Details Story Dictionary 漕 rowing Heisig's Water . . . cadet. Koohii #1 Bender the cadet (see frame 1172) is rowing, during some army exercise, and he´s very afraid of water (Bender is a robot). Koohii #2 The space cadet is in training, rowing in the water (see it splash). Primitives rowing, water, water droplets, water pistol, cadet, one, bend, sun, day 漕ぐ(こぐ): to row, to scull, to pedal Kunyomi: こ.ぐ、はこ.ぶ Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:	rowing 漕 画数14 1259 Details Story Dictionary 漕 rowing Heisig's Water . . . cadet. Koohii #1 Bender the cadet (see frame 1172) is rowing, during some army exercise, and he´s very afraid of water (Bender is a robot). Koohii #2 The space cadet is in training, rowing in the water (see it splash). Primitives rowing, water, water droplets, water pistol, cadet, one, bend, sun, day 漕ぐ(こぐ): to row, to scull, to pedal Kunyomi: こ.ぐ、はこ.ぶ Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:
vat Details Story Dictionary 槽 vat Heisig's Tree . . . cadet. Koohii #1 Also as part of some army survival exercise, the cadets (including Bender see frame 1172) are sent into the woods to build a vat (for collecting water for example). Koohii #2 Bender the Cadet (kudos to Fuaburisu) is found on an army training exercise, hiding behind a tree, getting drunk on the famous scotch whiskey Vat 69. Primitives vat, tree, wood, cadet, one, bend, sun, day Kunyomi: ふね Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	vat 槽 画数15 1260 Details Story Dictionary 槽 vat Heisig's Tree . . . cadet. Koohii #1 Also as part of some army survival exercise, the cadets (including Bender see frame 1172) are sent into the woods to build a vat (for collecting water for example). Koohii #2 Bender the Cadet (kudos to Fuaburisu) is found on an army training exercise, hiding behind a tree, getting drunk on the famous scotch whiskey Vat 69. Primitives vat, tree, wood, cadet, one, bend, sun, day Kunyomi: ふね Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"Big Dipper Details Story Dictionary 斗 Big Dipper Heisig's The Big Dipper here is of course the constellation of Ursa Major, of which this kanji is a sort of pictographic representation. * Since we already have a primitive element for a ""dipper"" - namely, the ladle - we shall let this one stand for a measuring cup. By the way, it would make a rather large one, since the kanji is also used for a measure of about 18 liters! Koohii #1 Since the meaning of ""big dipper"" is rather specific and the sense of measurement seems to be a more common usage, I concentrate on the primative meaning of measuring cup. This is a pictograph, with the first two strokes representing the measuring ticks on the side of the cup. Koohii #2 Is it just me, or do all of these traditional kanji pictographs look like they were drawn by a retarded bunny rabbit? Primitives big dipper, measuring cup, big dipper, The Plough, drop, ten, needle Kunyomi: Onyomi: ト、トウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"Big Dipper 斗 画数4 1261 Details Story Dictionary 斗 Big Dipper Heisig's The Big Dipper here is of course the constellation of Ursa Major, of which this kanji is a sort of pictographic representation. * Since we already have a primitive element for a ""dipper"" - namely, the ladle - we shall let this one stand for a measuring cup. By the way, it would make a rather large one, since the kanji is also used for a measure of about 18 liters! Koohii #1 Since the meaning of ""big dipper"" is rather specific and the sense of measurement seems to be a more common usage, I concentrate on the primative meaning of measuring cup. This is a pictograph, with the first two strokes representing the measuring ticks on the side of the cup. Koohii #2 Is it just me, or do all of these traditional kanji pictographs look like they were drawn by a retarded bunny rabbit? Primitives big dipper, measuring cup, big dipper, The Plough, drop, ten, needle Kunyomi: Onyomi: ト、トウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
fee (ingredients) Details Story Dictionary 料 fee (ingredients) My Story [Rice + Spice rack] The #ingredients# needed are *rice*, it can be found in the *spice rack*; there aint no #fee# Koohii #1 When buying rice, the fee is calculated by the cup. Naturally we don´t just use any cup; it has to be a proper measuring cup. Koohii #2 Samurai(s) once received their fee in the form of rice that had been carefully weighed in a measuring cup beforehand. Primitives fee, rice, measuring cup, big dipper, The Plough, drop, ten, needle 衣料(いりょう): clothing 香辛料(こうしんりょう): spices 燃料(ねんりょう): fuel 肥料(ひりょう): manure, fertilizer 料(りょう): material, charge, rate, fee 給料(きゅうりょう): salary, wages 原料(げんりょう): raw materials 材料(ざいりょう): ingredients, material 食料(しょくりょう): food 資料(しりょう): materials, data 送料(そうりょう): postage 調味料(ちょうみりょう): condiment, seasoning 無料(むりょう): free, no charge 有料(ゆうりょう): admission-paid, toll 料金(りょうきん): fee, charge, fare 食料品(しょくりょうひん): foods 料理(りょうり): cooking, cookery, cuisine Kunyomi: Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:	fee (ingredients) 料 画数10 1262 Details Story Dictionary 料 fee (ingredients) My Story [Rice + Spice rack] The #ingredients# needed are *rice*, it can be found in the *spice rack*; there aint no #fee# Koohii #1 When buying rice, the fee is calculated by the cup. Naturally we don´t just use any cup; it has to be a proper measuring cup. Koohii #2 Samurai(s) once received their fee in the form of rice that had been carefully weighed in a measuring cup beforehand. Primitives fee, rice, measuring cup, big dipper, The Plough, drop, ten, needle 衣料(いりょう): clothing 香辛料(こうしんりょう): spices 燃料(ねんりょう): fuel 肥料(ひりょう): manure, fertilizer 料(りょう): material, charge, rate, fee 給料(きゅうりょう): salary, wages 原料(げんりょう): raw materials 材料(ざいりょう): ingredients, material 食料(しょくりょう): food 資料(しりょう): materials, data 送料(そうりょう): postage 調味料(ちょうみりょう): condiment, seasoning 無料(むりょう): free, no charge 有料(ゆうりょう): admission-paid, toll 料金(りょうきん): fee, charge, fare 食料品(しょくりょうひん): foods 料理(りょうり): cooking, cookery, cuisine Kunyomi: Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:
department Details Story Dictionary 科 department My Story Weed (*wheat*) and spice (*spice rack*) are used for *SCIENCE* Koohii #1 The national DEPARTMENT of WHEATS and MEASURES. Get it? This one was hard until I came up with this. Koohii #2 Agriculture/astronomy departments...　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　カ　科学　かがく (science). Primitives department, wheat, cereal, measuring cup, big dipper, The Plough, drop, ten, needle 亜科(あか): suborder, subfamily 科(か): department, section 眼科(がんか): ophthalmology 教科(きょうか): subject, curriculum 産婦人科(さんふじんか): maternity and gynecology department 歯科(しか): dentistry 耳鼻科(じびか): otolaryngology 小児科(しょうにか): pediatrics 百科事典(ひゃっかじてん): encyclopedia 百科辞典(ひゃっかじてん): encyclopedia 学科(がっか): study subject, course of study 科目(かもく): (school) subject, curriculum, course 教科書(きょうかしょ): text book 外科(げか): surgical department 自然科学(しぜんかがく): natural science 社会科学(しゃかいかがく): social science 人文科学(じんぶんかがく): social sciences, humanities 内科(ないか): internist clinic, internal medicine 理科(りか): science 科学(かがく): science Kunyomi: Onyomi: カ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	department 科 画数9 1263 Details Story Dictionary 科 department My Story Weed (*wheat*) and spice (*spice rack*) are used for *SCIENCE* Koohii #1 The national DEPARTMENT of WHEATS and MEASURES. Get it? This one was hard until I came up with this. Koohii #2 Agriculture/astronomy departments...　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　カ　科学　かがく (science). Primitives department, wheat, cereal, measuring cup, big dipper, The Plough, drop, ten, needle 亜科(あか): suborder, subfamily 科(か): department, section 眼科(がんか): ophthalmology 教科(きょうか): subject, curriculum 産婦人科(さんふじんか): maternity and gynecology department 歯科(しか): dentistry 耳鼻科(じびか): otolaryngology 小児科(しょうにか): pediatrics 百科事典(ひゃっかじてん): encyclopedia 百科辞典(ひゃっかじてん): encyclopedia 学科(がっか): study subject, course of study 科目(かもく): (school) subject, curriculum, course 教科書(きょうかしょ): text book 外科(げか): surgical department 自然科学(しぜんかがく): natural science 社会科学(しゃかいかがく): social science 人文科学(じんぶんかがく): social sciences, humanities 内科(ないか): internist clinic, internal medicine 理科(りか): science 科学(かがく): science Kunyomi: Onyomi: カ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
"map Details Story Dictionary 図 map Heisig's Pent in . . . Big Dipper. Hint: among the songs dating from the days of slavery that have become part of American folklore is one called ""Follow the Drinking Gourd."" It referred to the nighttime travel of runaway slaves (those pent in) who had no maps other than the stars to guide them, among them the bright and predominant Big Dipper, the ""Drinking Gourd."" Koohii #1 Can´t see direct relation to Big Dipper (#1177) since its writing order is completely different. As raulir noted, it´s written as overlapping at the last stroke of ツ and the first of メ. I take it as a pictograph or treasure map. Two dots represent big trees and the cross (marking the treasure) is placed relative to them. Koohii #2 A pictograph of a treasure map. Two steps east then X marks the spot. 図る はかる attempt, deceive; 地図 ちず map; 意図する いとする make a goal, intend to do. Primitives map, pent in, measuring cup, big dipper, The Plough, drop, ten, needle 意図(いと): intention, aim, design 指図(さしず): instruction, mandate 図々しい(ずうずうしい): impudent, shameless 図る(はかる): to plot, to attempt, to plan, to take in, to deceive, to devise, to design, to refer A to B 合図(あいず): sign, signal 図(ず): drawing, picture, illustration 図鑑(ずかん): picture book 図形(ずけい): figure 図表(ずひょう): chart, diagram, graph 図書(としょ): books 地図(ちず): map 図書館(としょかん): library Kunyomi: え、はか.る Onyomi: ズ、ト Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 図画 (ずが), 図表 (ずひょう), 地図 (ちず), 図る (はか.る)"	"map 図 画数7 1264 Details Story Dictionary 図 map Heisig's Pent in . . . Big Dipper. Hint: among the songs dating from the days of slavery that have become part of American folklore is one called ""Follow the Drinking Gourd."" It referred to the nighttime travel of runaway slaves (those pent in) who had no maps other than the stars to guide them, among them the bright and predominant Big Dipper, the ""Drinking Gourd."" Koohii #1 Can´t see direct relation to Big Dipper (#1177) since its writing order is completely different. As raulir noted, it´s written as overlapping at the last stroke of ツ and the first of メ. I take it as a pictograph or treasure map. Two dots represent big trees and the cross (marking the treasure) is placed relative to them. Koohii #2 A pictograph of a treasure map. Two steps east then X marks the spot. 図る はかる attempt, deceive; 地図 ちず map; 意図する いとする make a goal, intend to do. Primitives map, pent in, measuring cup, big dipper, The Plough, drop, ten, needle 意図(いと): intention, aim, design 指図(さしず): instruction, mandate 図々しい(ずうずうしい): impudent, shameless 図る(はかる): to plot, to attempt, to plan, to take in, to deceive, to devise, to design, to refer A to B 合図(あいず): sign, signal 図(ず): drawing, picture, illustration 図鑑(ずかん): picture book 図形(ずけい): figure 図表(ずひょう): chart, diagram, graph 図書(としょ): books 地図(ちず): map 図書館(としょかん): library Kunyomi: え、はか.る Onyomi: ズ、ト Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 図画 (ずが), 図表 (ずひょう), 地図 (ちず), 図る (はか.る)"
"utilize Details Story Dictionary 用 utilize Heisig's Meat . . . walking stick. Be sure to keep this key word distinct from that for use (Frame 1065). The stroke order is exactly as you would expect it from the order of the primitive elements as given. * As a primitive element, we shall substitute the image of a screwdriver, perhaps the most utilized of all tools around the house. Koohii #1 To tenderize meat in an emergency wilderness situation, just utilize your walking stick! Koohii #2 I´ll confuse this with use (#990), so build a distinction right from the start. For me, ""utilize"" has an artificial, business-speak connotation; you only utilize ""utilize"" when you´re trying to puff up what you´re saying and sound important. So: ""BioTools Inc introduces the FG2000 screwdriver, utilizing the our latest FleshGrip(tm) technology!"" I´m seeing this as a picture of a stubby screwdriver with a handle made of flesh, a short shaft, and prongs to hold a screw in place until you drive it. Primitives utilize, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, walking stick 運用(うんよう): making use of, application, investment, practical use 慣用(かんよう): common, customary 兼用(けんよう): multi-use, combined use, combination, serving two purposes 公用(こうよう): government business, public use, public expense 雇用(こよう): employment (long term), hire 採用(さいよう): use, adopt 作用(さよう): action, operation, effect, function 私用(しよう): personal use, private business 使用人(しようにん): employee, servant 専用(せんよう): exclusive use, personal use 代用(だいよう): substitution 無用(むよう): useless, futility, needlessness, unnecessariness 用件(ようけん): business 用紙(ようし): blank form 用品(ようひん): articles, supplies, parts 用法(ようほう): directions, rules of use 濫用(らんよう): abuse, misuse, misappropriation, using to excess 引用(いんよう): quotation, citation 応用(おうよう): application, put to practical use 活用(かつよう): conjugation, practical use 器用(きよう): skillful, handy 実用(じつよう): practical use, utility 信用(しんよう): confidence, dependence, credit, faith, reliance, belief, credence 使用(しよう): use, employment 通用(つうよう): popular use, circulation 適用(てきよう): applying 日用品(にちようひん): daily necessities 費用(ひよう): cost, expense 用いる(もちいる): use, make use of 用語(ようご): term, terminology 用心(ようじん): care, precaution, caution 用途(ようと): use, usefulness 用(よう): business, errand 用意(ようい): prepare 用事(ようじ): business, errand 利用(りよう): use Kunyomi: もち.いる Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 用いる (もち.いる)"	"utilize 用 画数5 1265 Details Story Dictionary 用 utilize Heisig's Meat . . . walking stick. Be sure to keep this key word distinct from that for use (Frame 1065). The stroke order is exactly as you would expect it from the order of the primitive elements as given. * As a primitive element, we shall substitute the image of a screwdriver, perhaps the most utilized of all tools around the house. Koohii #1 To tenderize meat in an emergency wilderness situation, just utilize your walking stick! Koohii #2 I´ll confuse this with use (#990), so build a distinction right from the start. For me, ""utilize"" has an artificial, business-speak connotation; you only utilize ""utilize"" when you´re trying to puff up what you´re saying and sound important. So: ""BioTools Inc introduces the FG2000 screwdriver, utilizing the our latest FleshGrip(tm) technology!"" I´m seeing this as a picture of a stubby screwdriver with a handle made of flesh, a short shaft, and prongs to hold a screw in place until you drive it. Primitives utilize, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, walking stick 運用(うんよう): making use of, application, investment, practical use 慣用(かんよう): common, customary 兼用(けんよう): multi-use, combined use, combination, serving two purposes 公用(こうよう): government business, public use, public expense 雇用(こよう): employment (long term), hire 採用(さいよう): use, adopt 作用(さよう): action, operation, effect, function 私用(しよう): personal use, private business 使用人(しようにん): employee, servant 専用(せんよう): exclusive use, personal use 代用(だいよう): substitution 無用(むよう): useless, futility, needlessness, unnecessariness 用件(ようけん): business 用紙(ようし): blank form 用品(ようひん): articles, supplies, parts 用法(ようほう): directions, rules of use 濫用(らんよう): abuse, misuse, misappropriation, using to excess 引用(いんよう): quotation, citation 応用(おうよう): application, put to practical use 活用(かつよう): conjugation, practical use 器用(きよう): skillful, handy 実用(じつよう): practical use, utility 信用(しんよう): confidence, dependence, credit, faith, reliance, belief, credence 使用(しよう): use, employment 通用(つうよう): popular use, circulation 適用(てきよう): applying 日用品(にちようひん): daily necessities 費用(ひよう): cost, expense 用いる(もちいる): use, make use of 用語(ようご): term, terminology 用心(ようじん): care, precaution, caution 用途(ようと): use, usefulness 用(よう): business, errand 用意(ようい): prepare 用事(ようじ): business, errand 利用(りよう): use Kunyomi: もち.いる Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 用いる (もち.いる)"
comfortable Details Story Dictionary 庸 comfortable Heisig's Cave . . . rake . . . screwdriver. Koohii #1 To live a comfortable life, single men need only a cave for living, a rake for cleaning and a screwdriver for fixing. Koohii #2 When I first moved in to my new cave, all I had was a bed (see bed (#592)). But now I´ve settled in, got myself a few handy things like a rake and a screwdriver, and made myself more comfortable. Primitives commonplace, comfortable, cave, rake, screwdriver, utilise, utilize, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, walking stick Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	comfortable 庸 画数11 1266 Details Story Dictionary 庸 comfortable Heisig's Cave . . . rake . . . screwdriver. Koohii #1 To live a comfortable life, single men need only a cave for living, a rake for cleaning and a screwdriver for fixing. Koohii #2 When I first moved in to my new cave, all I had was a bed (see bed (#592)). But now I´ve settled in, got myself a few handy things like a rake and a screwdriver, and made myself more comfortable. Primitives commonplace, comfortable, cave, rake, screwdriver, utilise, utilize, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, walking stick Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
equip Details Story Dictionary 備 equip My Story [Person + flowers + cliff (no dot) + Use {用}] A *person* who wants a *flower* and that will climb to the top of a cliff, will have many *uses*, you should equip them as a friend. Koohii #1 Mr. T wants to climb up and pick the flowers at the top of the cliff. He equips himself with screwdrivers to use as climbing spikes to reach the top of the cliff. Imagine a large AMMO belt full of philips screwdrivers instead of bullets. Koohii #2 An RPG where you´re using Mr T as a character. Before you enter a battle, you equip the flower cliff screwdriver. This is a small screwdriver obtained at the bottom of a cliff that, when used in battle, shoots out pink flowers. When they touch the ground in front of the enemy, they create a massive cliff, and the ground under the enemy falls away into the sea. Picture being at the item select menu and EQUIPping this item just before facing a tough boss. Primitives equip, person, flowers, cliff, screwdriver, utilise, utilize, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, walking stick 軍備(ぐんび): armaments, military preparations 守備(しゅび): defense 装備(そうび): equipment 備え付ける(そなえつける): to provide, to furnish, to equip, to install 備える(そなえる): to furnish, to provide for, to equip, to install, to have ready, to prepare for, to possess, to have, to be endowed with, to be armed with 備わる(そなわる): to be furnished with, to be endowed with, to possess, to be among, to be one of, to be possessed of 警備(けいび): defense, guard, policing, security 整備(せいび): adjustment, completion, consolidation 設備(せつび): equipment, device, facilities, installation 予備(よび): preparation, preliminaries, reserve, spare 準備(じゅんび): prepare Kunyomi: そな.える、そな.わる、つぶさ.に Onyomi: ビ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 備える (そな.える), 備わる (そな.わる)	equip 備 画数12 1267 Details Story Dictionary 備 equip My Story [Person + flowers + cliff (no dot) + Use {用}] A *person* who wants a *flower* and that will climb to the top of a cliff, will have many *uses*, you should equip them as a friend. Koohii #1 Mr. T wants to climb up and pick the flowers at the top of the cliff. He equips himself with screwdrivers to use as climbing spikes to reach the top of the cliff. Imagine a large AMMO belt full of philips screwdrivers instead of bullets. Koohii #2 An RPG where you´re using Mr T as a character. Before you enter a battle, you equip the flower cliff screwdriver. This is a small screwdriver obtained at the bottom of a cliff that, when used in battle, shoots out pink flowers. When they touch the ground in front of the enemy, they create a massive cliff, and the ground under the enemy falls away into the sea. Picture being at the item select menu and EQUIPping this item just before facing a tough boss. Primitives equip, person, flowers, cliff, screwdriver, utilise, utilize, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, walking stick 軍備(ぐんび): armaments, military preparations 守備(しゅび): defense 装備(そうび): equipment 備え付ける(そなえつける): to provide, to furnish, to equip, to install 備える(そなえる): to furnish, to provide for, to equip, to install, to have ready, to prepare for, to possess, to have, to be endowed with, to be armed with 備わる(そなわる): to be furnished with, to be endowed with, to possess, to be among, to be one of, to be possessed of 警備(けいび): defense, guard, policing, security 整備(せいび): adjustment, completion, consolidation 設備(せつび): equipment, device, facilities, installation 予備(よび): preparation, preliminaries, reserve, spare 準備(じゅんび): prepare Kunyomi: そな.える、そな.わる、つぶさ.に Onyomi: ビ Lesson: 31 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 備える (そな.える), 備わる (そな.わる)
"once upon a time Details Story Dictionary 昔 once upon a time My Story once upon a time there was a *fence* where the *sun* never rose Koohii #1 Once upon a time, the children were forced to eat their salad every day. Koohii #2 For those who don´t know the expression, ""salad days"" means the time of one´s youth. (originally from Shakespeare´s Antony and Cleopatra - see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salad_days). I suspect Heisig chose ""salad"" as the name for the radical just for this phrase... Primitives once upon a time, salad, flowers, one, floor, sun, day 昔(むかし): old time, before, ago Kunyomi: むかし Onyomi: セキ、シャク Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 昔日 (むかしにち), 昔年 (むかしねん), 昔時 (むかしとき), 昔 (むかし)"	"once upon a time 昔 画数8 1268 Details Story Dictionary 昔 once upon a time My Story once upon a time there was a *fence* where the *sun* never rose Koohii #1 Once upon a time, the children were forced to eat their salad every day. Koohii #2 For those who don´t know the expression, ""salad days"" means the time of one´s youth. (originally from Shakespeare´s Antony and Cleopatra - see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salad_days). I suspect Heisig chose ""salad"" as the name for the radical just for this phrase... Primitives once upon a time, salad, flowers, one, floor, sun, day 昔(むかし): old time, before, ago Kunyomi: むかし Onyomi: セキ、シャク Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 昔日 (むかしにち), 昔年 (むかしねん), 昔時 (むかしとき), 昔 (むかし)"
"confused Details Story Dictionary 錯 confused Heisig's Metal . . . once upon a time. Koohii #1 A long time ago, people of the world got confused because there were so many kinds of Metal coins. today we only have the euro. Koohii #2 Once upon a time, it was thought that the ancient ""art"" of alchemy could transform anything into gold. At that time, people were obviously confused about the difference between reality and myth. (Arguably people are still as confused as ever, just about different things now.). Primitives confused, metal, gold, once upon a time, storyteller, salad, sun, day 錯誤(さくご): mistake 錯覚(さっかく): optical illusion, hallucination Kunyomi: Onyomi: サク、シャク Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"confused 錯 画数16 1269 Details Story Dictionary 錯 confused Heisig's Metal . . . once upon a time. Koohii #1 A long time ago, people of the world got confused because there were so many kinds of Metal coins. today we only have the euro. Koohii #2 Once upon a time, it was thought that the ancient ""art"" of alchemy could transform anything into gold. At that time, people were obviously confused about the difference between reality and myth. (Arguably people are still as confused as ever, just about different things now.). Primitives confused, metal, gold, once upon a time, storyteller, salad, sun, day 錯誤(さくご): mistake 錯覚(さっかく): optical illusion, hallucination Kunyomi: Onyomi: サク、シャク Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"borrow Details Story Dictionary 借 borrow My Story [Person + Back in the day {昔}] *Back in the day*, you'd borrow from a *person*. These days you go to a bank. 借りる (かりる) Koohii #1 Once upon a time I let Mr T borrow my salad bowl, but he won´t give it back. ""This be mine now, foo!"". Koohii #2 Mr. T borrowed a copy of Cinderella and won´t give it back. He keeps watching it over and over again, trying to figure out how the Fairy Godmother does her magic. Primitives borrow, person, once upon a time, storyteller, salad, sun, day 借り(かり): borrowing, debt, loan 拝借(はいしゃく): borrowing 借金(しゃっきん): debt, loan, liabilities 借りる(かりる): borrow, hire, rent, buy on credit Kunyomi: か.りる Onyomi: シャク Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 借りる (か.りる)"	"borrow 借 画数10 1270 Details Story Dictionary 借 borrow My Story [Person + Back in the day {昔}] *Back in the day*, you'd borrow from a *person*. These days you go to a bank. 借りる (かりる) Koohii #1 Once upon a time I let Mr T borrow my salad bowl, but he won´t give it back. ""This be mine now, foo!"". Koohii #2 Mr. T borrowed a copy of Cinderella and won´t give it back. He keeps watching it over and over again, trying to figure out how the Fairy Godmother does her magic. Primitives borrow, person, once upon a time, storyteller, salad, sun, day 借り(かり): borrowing, debt, loan 拝借(はいしゃく): borrowing 借金(しゃっきん): debt, loan, liabilities 借りる(かりる): borrow, hire, rent, buy on credit Kunyomi: か.りる Onyomi: シャク Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 借りる (か.りる)"
"pity Details Story Dictionary 惜 pity Heisig's State of mind . . . once upon a time. The sense of the key word is that of a lost opportunity or bad turn of affairs, as in the phrase ""What a pity!"" Koohii #1 What a pity! My state of mind when i think of the opportunities I missed from once upon a time. Koohii #2 Data says ""What a pity"" when he hears that once upon a time there were no robots. Primitives pity, Freud, state of mind, once upon a time, storyteller, salad, sun, day 惜しむ(おしむ): to be frugal, to value, to regret 惜しい(おしい): regrettable, disappointing, precious Kunyomi: お.しい、お.しむ Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 惜しい (お.しい), 惜しむ (お.しむ)"	"pity 惜 画数11 1271 Details Story Dictionary 惜 pity Heisig's State of mind . . . once upon a time. The sense of the key word is that of a lost opportunity or bad turn of affairs, as in the phrase ""What a pity!"" Koohii #1 What a pity! My state of mind when i think of the opportunities I missed from once upon a time. Koohii #2 Data says ""What a pity"" when he hears that once upon a time there were no robots. Primitives pity, Freud, state of mind, once upon a time, storyteller, salad, sun, day 惜しむ(おしむ): to be frugal, to value, to regret 惜しい(おしい): regrettable, disappointing, precious Kunyomi: お.しい、お.しむ Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 惜しい (お.しい), 惜しむ (お.しむ)"
set aside Details Story Dictionary 措 set aside Heisig's Fingers . . . once upon a time. Koohii #1 Long ago our ancestors set aside the use of fingers and began to use cutlery. (Raichu,11-7-2006) The way I remember it´s 昔 once upon a time (#1184) rather than 旧 olden times (#35) is that they began to use cutlery to eat salad. (I also think about how when you visit the Medieval Times theme park, which is set in Once upon a time, their gimmick is that you eat with your fingers.). Koohii #2 Once upon a time... Oh hell, you´re just too old for this. You close your fairy tale book and set it aside, pushing it away with your fingers. Primitives set aside, finger, fingers, once upon a time, storyteller, salad, sun, day 措置(そち): measure, step Kunyomi: お.く Onyomi: ソ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	set aside 措 画数11 1272 Details Story Dictionary 措 set aside Heisig's Fingers . . . once upon a time. Koohii #1 Long ago our ancestors set aside the use of fingers and began to use cutlery. (Raichu,11-7-2006) The way I remember it´s 昔 once upon a time (#1184) rather than 旧 olden times (#35) is that they began to use cutlery to eat salad. (I also think about how when you visit the Medieval Times theme park, which is set in Once upon a time, their gimmick is that you eat with your fingers.). Koohii #2 Once upon a time... Oh hell, you´re just too old for this. You close your fairy tale book and set it aside, pushing it away with your fingers. Primitives set aside, finger, fingers, once upon a time, storyteller, salad, sun, day 措置(そち): measure, step Kunyomi: お.く Onyomi: ソ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
scatter Details Story Dictionary 散 scatter Heisig's Salad . . . flesh . . taskmaster. Koohii #1 The taskmaster is dissatisfied with the meal she´s served, and scatters the salad & meat across the floor for the servants to clean up. Koohii #2 Perhaps you´ve heard of Nyotaimori or Nantaimori (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nyotaimori) in which sushi is ate from the flesh of a naked person, the story comes easily. Scatter salad over the flesh of the taskmaster in preperation for some nantaimori :). Primitives scatter, salad, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, taskmaster 拡散(かくさん): scattering, diffusion 散蒔く(ばらまく): to disseminate, to scatter, to give money freely 分散(ぶんさん): dispersion, decentralization, variance (statistics) 解散(かいさん): breakup, dissolution 散らかす(ちらかす): scatter around, leave untidy 散らかる(ちらかる): be in disorder, lie scattered around 散らす(ちらす): scatter, disperse, distribute 散る(ちる): to fall, scatter 散歩(さんぽ): walk, stroll Kunyomi: ち.る、ち.らす、-ち.らす、ち.らかす、ち.らかる、ばら Onyomi: サン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 散らかす (ち.らかす), 散らかる (ち.らかる), 散らす (ち.らす), 散る (ち.る)	scatter 散 画数12 1273 Details Story Dictionary 散 scatter Heisig's Salad . . . flesh . . taskmaster. Koohii #1 The taskmaster is dissatisfied with the meal she´s served, and scatters the salad & meat across the floor for the servants to clean up. Koohii #2 Perhaps you´ve heard of Nyotaimori or Nantaimori (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nyotaimori) in which sushi is ate from the flesh of a naked person, the story comes easily. Scatter salad over the flesh of the taskmaster in preperation for some nantaimori :). Primitives scatter, salad, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, taskmaster 拡散(かくさん): scattering, diffusion 散蒔く(ばらまく): to disseminate, to scatter, to give money freely 分散(ぶんさん): dispersion, decentralization, variance (statistics) 解散(かいさん): breakup, dissolution 散らかす(ちらかす): scatter around, leave untidy 散らかる(ちらかる): be in disorder, lie scattered around 散らす(ちらす): scatter, disperse, distribute 散る(ちる): to fall, scatter 散歩(さんぽ): walk, stroll Kunyomi: ち.る、ち.らす、-ち.らす、ち.らかす、ち.らかる、ばら Onyomi: サン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 散らかす (ち.らかす), 散らかる (ち.らかる), 散らす (ち.らす), 散る (ち.る)
twenty Details Story Dictionary 廿 twenty Heisig's The two tens joined at the bottom by a short line is actually the old character for twenty, which we might as well learn since we need its primitive form. It is written the same as salad, except for the shorter final stroke. Koohii #1 A generation is 30, one stroke less is twenty. Koohii #2 Ten plus ten is twenty (see generation (#28)). Primitives twenty Kunyomi: にじゅう Onyomi: ジュウ、ニュウ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:	twenty 廿 画数4 1274 Details Story Dictionary 廿 twenty Heisig's The two tens joined at the bottom by a short line is actually the old character for twenty, which we might as well learn since we need its primitive form. It is written the same as salad, except for the shorter final stroke. Koohii #1 A generation is 30, one stroke less is twenty. Koohii #2 Ten plus ten is twenty (see generation (#28)). Primitives twenty Kunyomi: にじゅう Onyomi: ジュウ、ニュウ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:
commoner Details Story Dictionary 庶 commoner Heisig's Caverns . . . oven fire. Koohii #1 Commoners have to huddle in caverns around a campfire, while higher class people get heating and central air conditioning in a hotel. Koohii #2 If you are so poor that you are a commoner, you will have to live twenty commoners to a cavern, with only one fire for everyone to share. Primitives commoner, caverns, cave, twenty, oven-fire, barbecue 庶民(しょみん): masses, common people 庶務(しょむ): general affairs Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	commoner 庶 画数11 1275 Details Story Dictionary 庶 commoner Heisig's Caverns . . . oven fire. Koohii #1 Commoners have to huddle in caverns around a campfire, while higher class people get heating and central air conditioning in a hotel. Koohii #2 If you are so poor that you are a commoner, you will have to live twenty commoners to a cavern, with only one fire for everyone to share. Primitives commoner, caverns, cave, twenty, oven-fire, barbecue 庶民(しょみん): masses, common people 庶務(しょむ): general affairs Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
intercept Details Story Dictionary 遮 intercept Heisig's Commoner . . . road. Koohii #1 The commoners are revolting! We must intercept them on the road before they reach the castle! Koohii #2 If don´t want your secret message to be intercepted, make sure your deliveryman is dressed as a commoner while traveling on the road. Primitives intercept, commoner, caverns, cave, twenty, oven-fire, barbecue, road 遮る(さえぎる): to interrupt, to intercept, to obstruct Kunyomi: さえぎ.る Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 遮る (さえぎ.る)	intercept 遮 画数14 1276 Details Story Dictionary 遮 intercept Heisig's Commoner . . . road. Koohii #1 The commoners are revolting! We must intercept them on the road before they reach the castle! Koohii #2 If don´t want your secret message to be intercepted, make sure your deliveryman is dressed as a commoner while traveling on the road. Primitives intercept, commoner, caverns, cave, twenty, oven-fire, barbecue, road 遮る(さえぎる): to interrupt, to intercept, to obstruct Kunyomi: さえぎ.る Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 遮る (さえぎ.る)
seat Details Story Dictionary 席 seat My Story A farmer under a cliff is not sitting in his seat. Koohii #1 Remember those poor commoners huddled in groups of 20 in a cave? The only thing they had for a seat was some old toweling (while their lords could recline on luxurious couches). Koohii #2 You´re tired from walking the tour at this cavern and there´s no benches to sit down on, so you take a towel and sling it up into a hammock-like seat using the stalagmites. (Big no-no). Primitives seat, caverns, cave, twenty, towel 着席(ちゃくせき): sit down, seat 客席(きゃくせき): guest seating 欠席(けっせき): absence, non-attendance 座席(ざせき): seat 出席(しゅっせき): attend 席(せき): seat Kunyomi: むしろ Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	seat 席 画数10 1277 Details Story Dictionary 席 seat My Story A farmer under a cliff is not sitting in his seat. Koohii #1 Remember those poor commoners huddled in groups of 20 in a cave? The only thing they had for a seat was some old toweling (while their lords could recline on luxurious couches). Koohii #2 You´re tired from walking the tour at this cavern and there´s no benches to sit down on, so you take a towel and sling it up into a hammock-like seat using the stalagmites. (Big no-no). Primitives seat, caverns, cave, twenty, towel 着席(ちゃくせき): sit down, seat 客席(きゃくせき): guest seating 欠席(けっせき): absence, non-attendance 座席(ざせき): seat 出席(しゅっせき): attend 席(せき): seat Kunyomi: むしろ Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
degrees Details Story Dictionary 度 degrees Heisig's This key word refers to a gradation of measurement, not to academic diplomas. Its primitives: caverns . . . crotch. Koohii #1 The cavern refugees are so poor that they can´t afford thermometers. So, the menfolk expose their crotches inside the cavern, and approximate the temperature in degrees from how shrivelled everything looks downstairs... Koohii #2 The cave is twenty degrees cooler than the outdoors. Twenty male crotches experience shrinkage. Primitives degrees, caverns, cave, twenty, crotch お目出度う(おめでとう): (ateji) (int) (uk) Congratulations!, an auspicious occasion! 感度(かんど): sensitivity, severity (quake) 屹度(きっと): (uk) surely, undoubtedly, certainly, without fail, sternly, severely 進度(しんど): progress 度々(たびたび): often, repeatedly, frequently 恰度(ちょうど): just, right, exactly 程度(ていど): degree, amount, grade, standard, of the order of (following a number) 度忘れ(どわすれ): lapse of memory, forget for a moment 密度(みつど): density 一度に(いちどに): all at once 緯度(いど): latitude (geography) 温度(おんど): temperature 角度(かくど): angle 加速度(かそくど): acceleration 経度(けいど): longitude 限度(げんど): limit, bounds 高度(こうど): altitude, height, advanced 支度(したく): preparation 湿度(しつど): level of humidity 制度(せいど): system, institution, organization 速度(そくど): speed, velocity, rate 態度(たいど): attitude, manner 度(たび): times (three times, etc.), degree 適度(てきど): moderate 度(ど): time (occurrence), system 年度(ねんど): year, fiscal year, school year, term 濃度(のうど): concentration, brightness 毎度(まいど): each time, common service-sector greeting 一度(いちど): once, one time 今度(こんど): next time Kunyomi: たび、-た.い Onyomi: ド、ト、タク Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 度胸 (どきょう), 制度 (せいど), 限度 (げんど), 法度 (ほうど), 度 (たび)	degrees 度 画数9 1278 Details Story Dictionary 度 degrees Heisig's This key word refers to a gradation of measurement, not to academic diplomas. Its primitives: caverns . . . crotch. Koohii #1 The cavern refugees are so poor that they can´t afford thermometers. So, the menfolk expose their crotches inside the cavern, and approximate the temperature in degrees from how shrivelled everything looks downstairs... Koohii #2 The cave is twenty degrees cooler than the outdoors. Twenty male crotches experience shrinkage. Primitives degrees, caverns, cave, twenty, crotch お目出度う(おめでとう): (ateji) (int) (uk) Congratulations!, an auspicious occasion! 感度(かんど): sensitivity, severity (quake) 屹度(きっと): (uk) surely, undoubtedly, certainly, without fail, sternly, severely 進度(しんど): progress 度々(たびたび): often, repeatedly, frequently 恰度(ちょうど): just, right, exactly 程度(ていど): degree, amount, grade, standard, of the order of (following a number) 度忘れ(どわすれ): lapse of memory, forget for a moment 密度(みつど): density 一度に(いちどに): all at once 緯度(いど): latitude (geography) 温度(おんど): temperature 角度(かくど): angle 加速度(かそくど): acceleration 経度(けいど): longitude 限度(げんど): limit, bounds 高度(こうど): altitude, height, advanced 支度(したく): preparation 湿度(しつど): level of humidity 制度(せいど): system, institution, organization 速度(そくど): speed, velocity, rate 態度(たいど): attitude, manner 度(たび): times (three times, etc.), degree 適度(てきど): moderate 度(ど): time (occurrence), system 年度(ねんど): year, fiscal year, school year, term 濃度(のうど): concentration, brightness 毎度(まいど): each time, common service-sector greeting 一度(いちど): once, one time 今度(こんど): next time Kunyomi: たび、-た.い Onyomi: ド、ト、タク Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 度胸 (どきょう), 制度 (せいど), 限度 (げんど), 法度 (ほうど), 度 (たび)
transit Details Story Dictionary 渡 transit Heisig's Water . . . degrees. Koohii #1 This particular form of transit is a ferry (one of the actual meanings of this character). Naturally it can only cross the water if it´s not frozen, so the temperature must be above 0 degrees. Koohii #2 The transit system in Tokyo is one of the best in the wrold, but why is it that when it is 35 degrees outside, it is about 2 degrees on the train? Or when it is 2 degrees outside, it is 35 degrees inside the train. This degree of difference means I am always sweating then getting the chills! I think I caught a fever! Primitives transit, water, water droplets, water pistol, degrees, caverns, cave, twenty, crotch 橋渡し(はしわたし): bridge building, mediation 見渡す(みわたす): to look out over, to survey (scene), to take an extensive view of 渡り鳥(わたりどり): migratory bird, bird of passage 渡す(わたす): pass over, hand over 渡る(わたる): cross over, go across Kunyomi: わた.る、-わた.る、わた.す Onyomi: ト Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 渡す (わた.す), 渡る (わた.る)	transit 渡 画数12 1279 Details Story Dictionary 渡 transit Heisig's Water . . . degrees. Koohii #1 This particular form of transit is a ferry (one of the actual meanings of this character). Naturally it can only cross the water if it´s not frozen, so the temperature must be above 0 degrees. Koohii #2 The transit system in Tokyo is one of the best in the wrold, but why is it that when it is 35 degrees outside, it is about 2 degrees on the train? Or when it is 2 degrees outside, it is 35 degrees inside the train. This degree of difference means I am always sweating then getting the chills! I think I caught a fever! Primitives transit, water, water droplets, water pistol, degrees, caverns, cave, twenty, crotch 橋渡し(はしわたし): bridge building, mediation 見渡す(みわたす): to look out over, to survey (scene), to take an extensive view of 渡り鳥(わたりどり): migratory bird, bird of passage 渡す(わたす): pass over, hand over 渡る(わたる): cross over, go across Kunyomi: わた.る、-わた.る、わた.す Onyomi: ト Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 渡す (わた.す), 渡る (わた.る)
bustle Details Story Dictionary 奔 bustle Heisig's The hustle and bustle of this character is depicted by a St. Bernard dog and a haystack. Koohii #1 Hustle and bustle = a big St. Bernard dog frisking about in a haystack, knocking it down and spreading the hay about, after the field hands just stacked it up. Koohii #2 A bustle is also the name for the big wire-framed skirts that women used to wear. Here´s a St. Bernard dog jammed ass-first into the top of a haystack, looking like some kind of proper Victorian-era lady as he struggles to get out. Primitives bustle, large, St. Bernard, haystack, ten, needle, needle3, ten3 Kunyomi: はし.る Onyomi: ホン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	bustle 奔 画数8 1280 Details Story Dictionary 奔 bustle Heisig's The hustle and bustle of this character is depicted by a St. Bernard dog and a haystack. Koohii #1 Hustle and bustle = a big St. Bernard dog frisking about in a haystack, knocking it down and spreading the hay about, after the field hands just stacked it up. Koohii #2 A bustle is also the name for the big wire-framed skirts that women used to wear. Here´s a St. Bernard dog jammed ass-first into the top of a haystack, looking like some kind of proper Victorian-era lady as he struggles to get out. Primitives bustle, large, St. Bernard, haystack, ten, needle, needle3, ten3 Kunyomi: はし.る Onyomi: ホン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
erupt Details Story Dictionary 噴 erupt Heisig's Mouth . . . haystack . . . clams. Koohii #1 History of Pompei: An unexpect eruption and from the mouths of the volcano come lava that threatens the farmers collecting haystacks in the fields and the fisherman catching shells on the coast. Koohii #2 A bit nasty (but makes the whole thing much easier to remember) is to take the right side and call it a bearded clam. For erupt, you can make your own story about the mouth/opening on the left. Primitives erupt, mouth, pitchfork, haystack, ten, needle, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, needle3, ten3 噴出(ふんしゅつ): spewing, gushing, spouting, eruption, effusion 噴火(ふんか): eruption 噴水(ふんすい): water fountain Kunyomi: ふ.く Onyomi: フン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 噴く (ふ.く)	erupt 噴 画数15 1281 Details Story Dictionary 噴 erupt Heisig's Mouth . . . haystack . . . clams. Koohii #1 History of Pompei: An unexpect eruption and from the mouths of the volcano come lava that threatens the farmers collecting haystacks in the fields and the fisherman catching shells on the coast. Koohii #2 A bit nasty (but makes the whole thing much easier to remember) is to take the right side and call it a bearded clam. For erupt, you can make your own story about the mouth/opening on the left. Primitives erupt, mouth, pitchfork, haystack, ten, needle, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, needle3, ten3 噴出(ふんしゅつ): spewing, gushing, spouting, eruption, effusion 噴火(ふんか): eruption 噴水(ふんすい): water fountain Kunyomi: ふ.く Onyomi: フン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 噴く (ふ.く)
tomb Details Story Dictionary 墳 tomb Heisig's Soil . . . haystack . . . clams. In order not to confuse this kanji with that for a grave (Frame 246), something like the image of an Egyptian tomb should be adopted, with all its special connotations. Koohii #1 After the eruption all is a tomb. The soil has covered the remains of the farmers gathering haystacks and of the fisherman collecting shells. Koohii #2 Using soil and hay to make bricks, the Egyptians built the pyramids to entomb the Pharaohs along with all of their money. Primitives tomb, soil, dirt, ground, pitchfork, haystack, ten, needle, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, needle3, ten3 Kunyomi: Onyomi: フン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	tomb 墳 画数15 1282 Details Story Dictionary 墳 tomb Heisig's Soil . . . haystack . . . clams. In order not to confuse this kanji with that for a grave (Frame 246), something like the image of an Egyptian tomb should be adopted, with all its special connotations. Koohii #1 After the eruption all is a tomb. The soil has covered the remains of the farmers gathering haystacks and of the fisherman collecting shells. Koohii #2 Using soil and hay to make bricks, the Egyptians built the pyramids to entomb the Pharaohs along with all of their money. Primitives tomb, soil, dirt, ground, pitchfork, haystack, ten, needle, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, needle3, ten3 Kunyomi: Onyomi: フン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"aroused Details Story Dictionary 憤 aroused Heisig's State of mind . . . haystack . . . clams. Koohii #1 Note: this word in Japanese has the idea of ""indignant"". So aroused here refers to being aroused because of anger over some unjust or wrong act, unfairness etc. It doesn´t seem to carry a meaning associated with arousal in the sense of sex or pleasure. So, my story: think of the angry state of mind aroused at finding all your clams buried under your haystack stolen, gone! Koohii #2 Data was aroused/indignant when he saw what the volcano had done to the farmers building their haystacks and the fishermen collecting their shells . The tragedy of it all aroused him so much he didn´t even notice he was feeling emotion. Primitives aroused, Freud, state of mind, pitchfork, haystack, ten, needle, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, needle3, ten3 憤慨(ふんがい): indignation, resentment Kunyomi: いきどお.る Onyomi: フン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 憤る (いきどお.る)"	"aroused 憤 画数15 1283 Details Story Dictionary 憤 aroused Heisig's State of mind . . . haystack . . . clams. Koohii #1 Note: this word in Japanese has the idea of ""indignant"". So aroused here refers to being aroused because of anger over some unjust or wrong act, unfairness etc. It doesn´t seem to carry a meaning associated with arousal in the sense of sex or pleasure. So, my story: think of the angry state of mind aroused at finding all your clams buried under your haystack stolen, gone! Koohii #2 Data was aroused/indignant when he saw what the volcano had done to the farmers building their haystacks and the fishermen collecting their shells . The tragedy of it all aroused him so much he didn´t even notice he was feeling emotion. Primitives aroused, Freud, state of mind, pitchfork, haystack, ten, needle, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, needle3, ten3 憤慨(ふんがい): indignation, resentment Kunyomi: いきどお.る Onyomi: フン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 憤る (いきどお.る)"
bake Details Story Dictionary 焼 bake My Story I got baked at Burning Man (where they light a giant *straw man* on *fire*) Koohii #1 Ah, there´s no better way to bake a pizza than an oven fueled by a burning strawman. And if you listen carefully, there are stifled strawman screams coming from the kitchen. Think of this image: http://users.mtrx.net/funnypics/content/-rdm1-ABCD1234-rdm1-/2005/2005-08-23-0002/Doughboy.jpg. Koohii #2 Too lofty (#2095)尭 a career choice for the strawman becoming a baker. He was fired soon after starting his first shift. Literally!...　　　RTK2:　ショウ　全焼　ぜんしょう(entirely destroyed by fire). Primitives bake, hearth fire, lofty, strawman, wickerman, haystack, ten, needle, one, human legs, needle3, ten3 燃焼(ねんしょう): burning, combustion 日焼け(ひやけ): sunburn 夕焼け(ゆうやけ): sunset 焼く(やく): bake, grill 焼ける(やける): be burned Kunyomi: や.く、や.き、や.き-、-や.き、や.ける Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 焼く (や.く), 焼ける (や.ける)	bake 焼 画数12 1284 Details Story Dictionary 焼 bake My Story I got baked at Burning Man (where they light a giant *straw man* on *fire*) Koohii #1 Ah, there´s no better way to bake a pizza than an oven fueled by a burning strawman. And if you listen carefully, there are stifled strawman screams coming from the kitchen. Think of this image: http://users.mtrx.net/funnypics/content/-rdm1-ABCD1234-rdm1-/2005/2005-08-23-0002/Doughboy.jpg. Koohii #2 Too lofty (#2095)尭 a career choice for the strawman becoming a baker. He was fired soon after starting his first shift. Literally!...　　　RTK2:　ショウ　全焼　ぜんしょう(entirely destroyed by fire). Primitives bake, hearth fire, lofty, strawman, wickerman, haystack, ten, needle, one, human legs, needle3, ten3 燃焼(ねんしょう): burning, combustion 日焼け(ひやけ): sunburn 夕焼け(ゆうやけ): sunset 焼く(やく): bake, grill 焼ける(やける): be burned Kunyomi: や.く、や.き、や.き-、-や.き、や.ける Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 焼く (や.く), 焼ける (や.ける)
daybreak Details Story Dictionary 暁 daybreak Heisig's Sun . . . straw man. Koohii #1 The sun rising beside a straw man in a corn field is a classic cartoon depiction of daybreak. Koohii #2 The first person to see the sun at daybreak is of course the straw man who stands outside all day. Primitives daybreak, sun, lofty, strawman, wickerman, haystack, ten, needle, one, human legs, needle3, ten3 Kunyomi: あかつき、さと.る Onyomi: ギョウ、キョウ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 暁 (あかつき)	daybreak 暁 画数12 1285 Details Story Dictionary 暁 daybreak Heisig's Sun . . . straw man. Koohii #1 The sun rising beside a straw man in a corn field is a classic cartoon depiction of daybreak. Koohii #2 The first person to see the sun at daybreak is of course the straw man who stands outside all day. Primitives daybreak, sun, lofty, strawman, wickerman, haystack, ten, needle, one, human legs, needle3, ten3 Kunyomi: あかつき、さと.る Onyomi: ギョウ、キョウ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 暁 (あかつき)
"half Details Story Dictionary 半 half Heisig's Although the writing order is different, one can remember the appearance of this character by seeing it as a little needle - the kind used for splitting hairs in half. (Again, according to rule, little takes a stroke beneath it in order to be placed over an element that has no horizontal line at the top.) Koohii #1 Imagine karate chopping the number three in half with a WALKING STICK and pausing the picture just as the first ""board"" breaks. Koohii #2 I think of this as a pictograph, there are three boards to cut, the first one is already in half and there are still two more to go. Primitives half, small, ten, needle 半端(はんぱ): remnant, fragment, incomplete set, fraction, odd sum, incompleteness 過半数(かはんすう): majority 大半(たいはん): majority, mostly, generally 半ば(なかば): middle, half, semi, halfway, partly 半径(はんけい): radius 半島(はんとう): peninsula 半(はん): half 半分(はんぶん): half Kunyomi: なか.ば Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 半ば (なか.ば)"	"half 半 画数5 1286 Details Story Dictionary 半 half Heisig's Although the writing order is different, one can remember the appearance of this character by seeing it as a little needle - the kind used for splitting hairs in half. (Again, according to rule, little takes a stroke beneath it in order to be placed over an element that has no horizontal line at the top.) Koohii #1 Imagine karate chopping the number three in half with a WALKING STICK and pausing the picture just as the first ""board"" breaks. Koohii #2 I think of this as a pictograph, there are three boards to cut, the first one is already in half and there are still two more to go. Primitives half, small, ten, needle 半端(はんぱ): remnant, fragment, incomplete set, fraction, odd sum, incompleteness 過半数(かはんすう): majority 大半(たいはん): majority, mostly, generally 半ば(なかば): middle, half, semi, halfway, partly 半径(はんけい): radius 半島(はんとう): peninsula 半(はん): half 半分(はんぶん): half Kunyomi: なか.ば Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 半ば (なか.ば)"
"consort Details Story Dictionary 伴 consort Heisig's Person . . . half. Koohii #1 The person who is your consort is most commonly ""your other half"". Koohii #2 Mr. T wants to splits himself in half so he can be his own CONSORT. Primitives consort, person, half 伴う(ともなう): to accompany, to bring with, to be accompanied by, to be involved in Kunyomi: ともな.う Onyomi: ハン、バン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 同伴 (どうはん), 随伴 (ずいはん), 伴う (ともな.う)"	"consort 伴 画数7 1287 Details Story Dictionary 伴 consort Heisig's Person . . . half. Koohii #1 The person who is your consort is most commonly ""your other half"". Koohii #2 Mr. T wants to splits himself in half so he can be his own CONSORT. Primitives consort, person, half 伴う(ともなう): to accompany, to bring with, to be accompanied by, to be involved in Kunyomi: ともな.う Onyomi: ハン、バン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 同伴 (どうはん), 随伴 (ずいはん), 伴う (ともな.う)"
paddy ridge Details Story Dictionary 畔 paddy ridge Heisig's Rice field . . . half. The key word here refers to the ridges that rise up between the sections of a rice paddy. Koohii #1 A PADDY-RIDGE divides the RICE FIELD in HALF. Koohii #2 Think about a large rice field as a big square. Then you draw a line down the middle, halving it into two. Then you draw a line across the middle, halving it again into four... These halvings are paddy-ridges that separate the rice field into separate sections. I dunno the reason why, but that´s how it´s done. Primitives paddy-ridge, rice field, brains, half Kunyomi: あぜ、くろ、ほとり Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	paddy ridge 畔 画数10 1288 Details Story Dictionary 畔 paddy ridge Heisig's Rice field . . . half. The key word here refers to the ridges that rise up between the sections of a rice paddy. Koohii #1 A PADDY-RIDGE divides the RICE FIELD in HALF. Koohii #2 Think about a large rice field as a big square. Then you draw a line down the middle, halving it into two. Then you draw a line across the middle, halving it again into four... These halvings are paddy-ridges that separate the rice field into separate sections. I dunno the reason why, but that´s how it´s done. Primitives paddy-ridge, rice field, brains, half Kunyomi: あぜ、くろ、ほとり Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
judgment Details Story Dictionary 判 judgment My Story [Half {半} + Realistic Saber] It takes good judgment to cut things in exactly *half* with a *realistic saber*. Koohii #1 In the bible, King Solomon´s JUDGMENT was admired not by saying to cut the baby in HALF with the SWORD, but that it revealed who the true mother was. Koohii #2 It takes good judgement to cut things in exactly half with a saber. Primitives judgement, half, sword, sabre, saber 審判(しんばん): refereeing, trial, judgement, umpire, referee 判(はん): seal, stamp, monogram signature, judgment 判(ばん): size (of paper or books) 判決(はんけつ): judicial decision, judgement, sentence, decree 判定(はんてい): judgement, decision, award, verdict 裁判(さいばん): trial, judgement 審判(しんぱん): refereeing, trial, judgement, umpire, referee 判子(はんこ): seal (used for signature) 判事(はんじ): judge, judiciary 判断(はんだん): judgement, decision, adjudication, conclusion, decipherment, divination 批判(ひはん): criticism, judgement, comment 評判(ひょうばん): fame, reputation, popularity, arrant Kunyomi: わか.る Onyomi: ハン、バン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 判定 (はんてい), 判明 (はんめい), 裁判 (さいばん)	judgment 判 画数7 1289 Details Story Dictionary 判 judgment My Story [Half {半} + Realistic Saber] It takes good judgment to cut things in exactly *half* with a *realistic saber*. Koohii #1 In the bible, King Solomon´s JUDGMENT was admired not by saying to cut the baby in HALF with the SWORD, but that it revealed who the true mother was. Koohii #2 It takes good judgement to cut things in exactly half with a saber. Primitives judgement, half, sword, sabre, saber 審判(しんばん): refereeing, trial, judgement, umpire, referee 判(はん): seal, stamp, monogram signature, judgment 判(ばん): size (of paper or books) 判決(はんけつ): judicial decision, judgement, sentence, decree 判定(はんてい): judgement, decision, award, verdict 裁判(さいばん): trial, judgement 審判(しんぱん): refereeing, trial, judgement, umpire, referee 判子(はんこ): seal (used for signature) 判事(はんじ): judge, judiciary 判断(はんだん): judgement, decision, adjudication, conclusion, decipherment, divination 批判(ひはん): criticism, judgement, comment 評判(ひょうばん): fame, reputation, popularity, arrant Kunyomi: わか.る Onyomi: ハン、バン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 判定 (はんてい), 判明 (はんめい), 裁判 (さいばん)
fist Details Story Dictionary 拳 fist Heisig's Quarter . . . hand. Be careful to keep this key word distinct from the primitive element of the same meaning we met back in Frame 741. Koohii #1 1) I hold a roll of quarters in my hand when I make a fist. 2) I hold a quarter in my hand as I prepare to play the Iron Fist Tournament: 鉄拳 （てっけん） at the arcade. Koohii #2 Quarter, hand: If you have a roll of quarters in your hand, your fist will deliver a much more effective punch. Primitives fist, quarter, hand Kunyomi: こぶし Onyomi: ケン、ゲン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 拳 (こぶし)	fist 拳 画数10 1290 Details Story Dictionary 拳 fist Heisig's Quarter . . . hand. Be careful to keep this key word distinct from the primitive element of the same meaning we met back in Frame 741. Koohii #1 1) I hold a roll of quarters in my hand when I make a fist. 2) I hold a quarter in my hand as I prepare to play the Iron Fist Tournament: 鉄拳 （てっけん） at the arcade. Koohii #2 Quarter, hand: If you have a roll of quarters in your hand, your fist will deliver a much more effective punch. Primitives fist, quarter, hand Kunyomi: こぶし Onyomi: ケン、ゲン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 拳 (こぶし)
ticket Details Story Dictionary 券 ticket Heisig's Quarter . . . dagger. Koohii #1 Entering the movie, the dude asks for your ticket, so he can tear it in half. He looks at you funny when you hand him a ticket already torn in half. He quietly tears the stub into quarters after you show him your dagger with a smile. Koohii #2 In Japan, the JR railway ju-hachi-kippu seasonal discount ticket can be cut into quarters with a dagger and shared with your friends. (its actually sort-of true). Primitives ticket, quarter, sword, dagger 旅券(りょけん): passport 回数券(かいすうけん): book of tickets 券(けん): ticket, coupon, bond, certificate 定期券(ていきけん): commuter pass, season ticket Kunyomi: Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	ticket 券 画数8 1291 Details Story Dictionary 券 ticket Heisig's Quarter . . . dagger. Koohii #1 Entering the movie, the dude asks for your ticket, so he can tear it in half. He looks at you funny when you hand him a ticket already torn in half. He quietly tears the stub into quarters after you show him your dagger with a smile. Koohii #2 In Japan, the JR railway ju-hachi-kippu seasonal discount ticket can be cut into quarters with a dagger and shared with your friends. (its actually sort-of true). Primitives ticket, quarter, sword, dagger 旅券(りょけん): passport 回数券(かいすうけん): book of tickets 券(けん): ticket, coupon, bond, certificate 定期券(ていきけん): commuter pass, season ticket Kunyomi: Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
scroll Details Story Dictionary 巻 scroll Heisig's Quarter . . . snake. The key word refers to a manuscript rolled up into a scroll, not to a hanging scroll (Frame 435). Koohii #1 At a mysterious bazaar, you happen to come across something interesting: a rolled-up scroll for only 25¢. You buy it up impulsively until you realize that the powerful spell contained within is cursed by a poisonous snake. If you try to cast this spell, the snake will pop out of nowhere and bite you! Hrmph. No wonder it was so cheap... Koohii #2 How to make snake maki: Take a snake. Roll it up in rice and nori (seaweed paper) like a scroll. Cut into quarters and serve on a wooden geta with ginger and wasabi. Primitives scroll, quarter, snake, self 取り巻く(とりまく): to surround, to circle, to enclose 巻(まき): volume 寝巻(ねまき): sleep-wear, nightclothes, pyjamas, nightgown, nightdress 巻く(まく): wind, coil, roll Kunyomi: ま.く、まき、ま.き Onyomi: カン、ケン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 巻き (ま.き), 巻く (ま.く)	scroll 巻 画数9 1292 Details Story Dictionary 巻 scroll Heisig's Quarter . . . snake. The key word refers to a manuscript rolled up into a scroll, not to a hanging scroll (Frame 435). Koohii #1 At a mysterious bazaar, you happen to come across something interesting: a rolled-up scroll for only 25¢. You buy it up impulsively until you realize that the powerful spell contained within is cursed by a poisonous snake. If you try to cast this spell, the snake will pop out of nowhere and bite you! Hrmph. No wonder it was so cheap... Koohii #2 How to make snake maki: Take a snake. Roll it up in rice and nori (seaweed paper) like a scroll. Cut into quarters and serve on a wooden geta with ginger and wasabi. Primitives scroll, quarter, snake, self 取り巻く(とりまく): to surround, to circle, to enclose 巻(まき): volume 寝巻(ねまき): sleep-wear, nightclothes, pyjamas, nightgown, nightdress 巻く(まく): wind, coil, roll Kunyomi: ま.く、まき、ま.き Onyomi: カン、ケン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 巻き (ま.き), 巻く (ま.く)
sphere Details Story Dictionary 圏 sphere Heisig's This key word refers to a realm or orbit, not to a ball. Its elements: pent in . . . scroll. Koohii #1 I assosiate scrolls with spell casting, the efect of this spell is pent in a certain sphere of influence, outside it no damage is done. Koohii #2 [RPG] You´re fighting a powerful enemy. Your mage uses a scroll/quartersnake of protection, and he´s pent in a sphere of protection. Primitives sphere, pent in, scroll, quarter, snake, self 圏(けん): sphere, circle, range Kunyomi: かこ.い Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	sphere 圏 画数12 1293 Details Story Dictionary 圏 sphere Heisig's This key word refers to a realm or orbit, not to a ball. Its elements: pent in . . . scroll. Koohii #1 I assosiate scrolls with spell casting, the efect of this spell is pent in a certain sphere of influence, outside it no damage is done. Koohii #2 [RPG] You´re fighting a powerful enemy. Your mage uses a scroll/quartersnake of protection, and he´s pent in a sphere of protection. Primitives sphere, pent in, scroll, quarter, snake, self 圏(けん): sphere, circle, range Kunyomi: かこ.い Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
victory Details Story Dictionary 勝 victory My Story [Moon/organs + Muscle + Power] After your VICTORY cut your enemy's flesh and *organs* into *QUARTER*s to show your *POWER*. Koohii #1 After your VICTORY cut your enemy´s FLESH into QUARTERs to show your POWER. Koohii #2 After England´s victory over Scottish rebel William Wallace, they had his flesh drawn and quartered and then sent around Britain to demonstrate their power. Primitives victory, edam, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, quarter, power, muscle, arnold 決勝(けっしょう): decision of a contest, finals (in sports) 勝負(しょうぶ): victory or defeat, match, contest, game, bout 勝利(しょうり): victory, triumph, conquest, success, win 勝る(まさる): to excel, to surpass, to outrival 勝ち(かち): win, victory 勝敗(しょうはい): victory or defeat, issue (of battle) 優勝(ゆうしょう): overall victory, championship 勝つ(かつ): to win Kunyomi: か.つ、-が.ち、まさ.る、すぐ.れる、かつ Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 勝つ (か.つ), 勝る (まさ.る)	victory 勝 画数12 1294 Details Story Dictionary 勝 victory My Story [Moon/organs + Muscle + Power] After your VICTORY cut your enemy's flesh and *organs* into *QUARTER*s to show your *POWER*. Koohii #1 After your VICTORY cut your enemy´s FLESH into QUARTERs to show your POWER. Koohii #2 After England´s victory over Scottish rebel William Wallace, they had his flesh drawn and quartered and then sent around Britain to demonstrate their power. Primitives victory, edam, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, quarter, power, muscle, arnold 決勝(けっしょう): decision of a contest, finals (in sports) 勝負(しょうぶ): victory or defeat, match, contest, game, bout 勝利(しょうり): victory, triumph, conquest, success, win 勝る(まさる): to excel, to surpass, to outrival 勝ち(かち): win, victory 勝敗(しょうはい): victory or defeat, issue (of battle) 優勝(ゆうしょう): overall victory, championship 勝つ(かつ): to win Kunyomi: か.つ、-が.ち、まさ.る、すぐ.れる、かつ Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 勝つ (か.つ), 勝る (まさ.る)
wisteria Details Story Dictionary 藤 wisteria Heisig's Flower . . . moon . . . quarter . . . rice grains. Koohii #1 According to legend, the great Ogaki wisteria tree grew and flowered from magical rice grains that were planted under the quarter moon. Koohii #2 The wisteria is a type of hanging vine covered with flowers. By the light of the quarter moon, the flowers look like clusters of rice grains. Primitives wisteria, flowers, edam, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, quarter, grains of rice Kunyomi: ふじ Onyomi: トウ、ドウ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 藤 (ふじ)	wisteria 藤 画数18 1295 Details Story Dictionary 藤 wisteria Heisig's Flower . . . moon . . . quarter . . . rice grains. Koohii #1 According to legend, the great Ogaki wisteria tree grew and flowered from magical rice grains that were planted under the quarter moon. Koohii #2 The wisteria is a type of hanging vine covered with flowers. By the light of the quarter moon, the flowers look like clusters of rice grains. Primitives wisteria, flowers, edam, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, quarter, grains of rice Kunyomi: ふじ Onyomi: トウ、ドウ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 藤 (ふじ)
"facsimilie Details Story Dictionary 謄 facsimilie Heisig's Moon . . . quarter . . . words. Koohii #1 Sending a facsimile to the moon can be problematic only a quarter of the words actually get there. Koohii #2 As a prank, a guy sits with his butt flesh on the facsimile machine, inserts a quarter, and tries to fax it to his boss. However the facsimile machine has pattern recognition technology and instead of an image of his flesh, it just transmits the word ""asshole"". Don´t forget it´s flesh, not words, on the left side; the flesh image gets transformed into words. Primitives mimeograph, facsimile, edam, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, quarter, say, words, keitai, mouth Kunyomi: Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"facsimilie 謄 画数17 1296 Details Story Dictionary 謄 facsimilie Heisig's Moon . . . quarter . . . words. Koohii #1 Sending a facsimile to the moon can be problematic only a quarter of the words actually get there. Koohii #2 As a prank, a guy sits with his butt flesh on the facsimile machine, inserts a quarter, and tries to fax it to his boss. However the facsimile machine has pattern recognition technology and instead of an image of his flesh, it just transmits the word ""asshole"". Don´t forget it´s flesh, not words, on the left side; the flesh image gets transformed into words. Primitives mimeograph, facsimile, edam, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, quarter, say, words, keitai, mouth Kunyomi: Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
one-sided Details Story Dictionary 片 one-sided Heisig's This kanji is based on the pictograph of a tree with some branches going upwards and others hanging down, split right down the middle. When that picture's right side is isolated, it becomes the kanji for one-sided, in the sense of only one part of a whole. Koohii #1 Fuaburisu´s pictograph of a man kneeling and presenting the ring to his future wife is a one-sided version of the story. Others say he was giving her the finger. Koohii #2 Taking the keyword in the sense of only one part of a whole, I see this as a pictograph of a man kneeling and presenting the ring to his future wife (I couldn´t see any trees or branches in there). Primitives one-sided, waiter with wine on tray 片思い(かたおもい): unrequited love 片言(かたこと): a smattering, talk like a baby, speak haltingly 片付け(かたづけ): tidying up, finishing 鉄片(てっぺん): iron scraps 片付く(かたづく): be put in order, be put to rights, be disposed of, be solved, be finished, be married (off) 片道(かたみち): one-way (trip) 片寄る(かたよる): be one-sided, partial, prejudiced, biased, lean, be inclined 破片(はへん): fragment, splinter, broken piece 片付ける(かたづける): tidy up 片仮名(かたかな): katakana Kunyomi: かた-、かた Onyomi: ヘン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 片 (かた)	one-sided 片 画数4 1297 Details Story Dictionary 片 one-sided Heisig's This kanji is based on the pictograph of a tree with some branches going upwards and others hanging down, split right down the middle. When that picture's right side is isolated, it becomes the kanji for one-sided, in the sense of only one part of a whole. Koohii #1 Fuaburisu´s pictograph of a man kneeling and presenting the ring to his future wife is a one-sided version of the story. Others say he was giving her the finger. Koohii #2 Taking the keyword in the sense of only one part of a whole, I see this as a pictograph of a man kneeling and presenting the ring to his future wife (I couldn´t see any trees or branches in there). Primitives one-sided, waiter with wine on tray 片思い(かたおもい): unrequited love 片言(かたこと): a smattering, talk like a baby, speak haltingly 片付け(かたづけ): tidying up, finishing 鉄片(てっぺん): iron scraps 片付く(かたづく): be put in order, be put to rights, be disposed of, be solved, be finished, be married (off) 片道(かたみち): one-way (trip) 片寄る(かたよる): be one-sided, partial, prejudiced, biased, lean, be inclined 破片(はへん): fragment, splinter, broken piece 片付ける(かたづける): tidy up 片仮名(かたかな): katakana Kunyomi: かた-、かた Onyomi: ヘン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 片 (かた)
"printing block Details Story Dictionary 版 printing block Heisig's Although this character also carries the sense of an ""edition"" of a publication, the elements, one-sided and anti-, more readily suggest its other meaning of a printing block. Koohii #1 Before the advent of printers in Japan, typewriters couldn´t be built as they were in the west due to how many kanji there are. Lots of small printing blocks had to be used instead. One side of the printing block would have a mirrored (anti) image of the kanji. This is true. Koohii #2 Nazi propaganda. Picture the printing blocks producing very one-sided (Aryan), anti-Jewish propaganda spreading posters to hang around town. Primitives printing block, one-sided, waiter with wine on tray, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch 初版(しょはん): first edition 絶版(ぜっぱん): out of print 版(はん): edition 版画(はんが): art print 出版(しゅっぱん): publication Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"printing block 版 画数8 1298 Details Story Dictionary 版 printing block Heisig's Although this character also carries the sense of an ""edition"" of a publication, the elements, one-sided and anti-, more readily suggest its other meaning of a printing block. Koohii #1 Before the advent of printers in Japan, typewriters couldn´t be built as they were in the west due to how many kanji there are. Lots of small printing blocks had to be used instead. One side of the printing block would have a mirrored (anti) image of the kanji. This is true. Koohii #2 Nazi propaganda. Picture the printing blocks producing very one-sided (Aryan), anti-Jewish propaganda spreading posters to hang around town. Primitives printing block, one-sided, waiter with wine on tray, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch 初版(しょはん): first edition 絶版(ぜっぱん): out of print 版(はん): edition 版画(はんが): art print 出版(しゅっぱん): publication Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
of Details Story Dictionary 之 of Heisig's This character is now used chiefly in proper names, and is best learned as the character closest to the hiragana え, though in fact it has no relation to it. * In order to give this kanji a more concrete meaning when it is used as a primitive element, think of it as referring to building blocks with the hiragana written on them, much the same as the A-B-C blocks you played with as a child. Koohii #1 Of all the kanji, this is the only one 之orro can write. Koohii #2 The Z of Zorro (and yes he has a hat). Primitives of, Zorro, building blocks, zig-zag Kunyomi: の、これ、おいて、ゆく、この Onyomi: シ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	of 之 画数3 1299 Details Story Dictionary 之 of Heisig's This character is now used chiefly in proper names, and is best learned as the character closest to the hiragana え, though in fact it has no relation to it. * In order to give this kanji a more concrete meaning when it is used as a primitive element, think of it as referring to building blocks with the hiragana written on them, much the same as the A-B-C blocks you played with as a child. Koohii #1 Of all the kanji, this is the only one 之orro can write. Koohii #2 The Z of Zorro (and yes he has a hat). Primitives of, Zorro, building blocks, zig-zag Kunyomi: の、これ、おいて、ゆく、この Onyomi: シ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
destitution Details Story Dictionary 乏 destitution Heisig's Drop of . . . building blocks. Koohii #1 Children in complete destitution have no hope of ever getting toys to play with, so when they find even a tiny drop of a building block they are overjoyed. Koohii #2 Just one drop (of alcohol) and he starts walking in zig-zags – no wonder Zorro´s living in destitution. (Note: As a primitive let 之 be Zorro or Zig-Zag: it´s pictographic). Primitives destitution, drop, of, Zorro, building blocks, zig-zag 窮乏(きゅうぼう): poverty 欠乏(けつぼう): want, shortage, famine 乏しい(とぼしい): meagre, scarce, limited, destitute, hard up, scanty, poor 貧乏(びんぼう): poverty, destitute, poor Kunyomi: とぼ.しい、とも.しい Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 乏しい (とぼ.しい)	destitution 乏 画数4 1300 Details Story Dictionary 乏 destitution Heisig's Drop of . . . building blocks. Koohii #1 Children in complete destitution have no hope of ever getting toys to play with, so when they find even a tiny drop of a building block they are overjoyed. Koohii #2 Just one drop (of alcohol) and he starts walking in zig-zags – no wonder Zorro´s living in destitution. (Note: As a primitive let 之 be Zorro or Zig-Zag: it´s pictographic). Primitives destitution, drop, of, Zorro, building blocks, zig-zag 窮乏(きゅうぼう): poverty 欠乏(けつぼう): want, shortage, famine 乏しい(とぼしい): meagre, scarce, limited, destitute, hard up, scanty, poor 貧乏(びんぼう): poverty, destitute, poor Kunyomi: とぼ.しい、とも.しい Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 乏しい (とぼ.しい)
"turf Details Story Dictionary 芝 turf Heisig's Flowers . . . building blocks. Koohii #1 Artificial turf made easy: flowers stuck on top of building blocks that you can place anywhere. Koohii #2 Zorro, with a flower between his teeth for the ladies, defends his turf against evildoers. ""This is my turf! And this...is for the lady."". Primitives turf, flowers, of, Zorro, building blocks, zig-zag 芝(しば): lawn, sod, turf 芝居(しばい): play, drama 芝生(しばふ): lawn Kunyomi: しば Onyomi: シ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 芝 (しば)"	"turf 芝 画数6 1301 Details Story Dictionary 芝 turf Heisig's Flowers . . . building blocks. Koohii #1 Artificial turf made easy: flowers stuck on top of building blocks that you can place anywhere. Koohii #2 Zorro, with a flower between his teeth for the ladies, defends his turf against evildoers. ""This is my turf! And this...is for the lady."". Primitives turf, flowers, of, Zorro, building blocks, zig-zag 芝(しば): lawn, sod, turf 芝居(しばい): play, drama 芝生(しばふ): lawn Kunyomi: しば Onyomi: シ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 芝 (しば)"
"negative Details Story Dictionary 不 negative Heisig's You may play with the primitives of this kanji as you wish (ceiling . . . person . . . a drop of), but you will probably find that its simplicity, and its frequency, make it easy to remember just as it is. Koohii #1 [Smithsonian] Scene: Mr. T hanging from the ceiling being tortured. He is asked if he is going to talk. Spitting (a drop of saliva) in the torturer´s face, he says ""Negative"". Koohii #2 One below zero is a negative number. Primitives negative, one, ceiling, person, drop 不意(ふい): sudden, abrupt, unexpected, unforeseen 不可欠(ふかけつ): indispensable, essential 不吉(ふきつ): ominous, sinister, bad luck, ill omen, inauspiciousness 不況(ふきょう): recession, depression, slump 不景気(ふけいき): business recession, hard times, depression, gloom, sullenness, cheerlessness 不在(ふざい): absence 不山戯る(ふざける): to romp, to gambol, to frolic, to joke, to make fun of, to flirt 不順(ふじゅん): irregularity, unseasonableness 不振(ふしん): dullness, depression, slump, stagnation 不審(ふしん): incomplete understanding, doubt, question, distrust, suspicion, strangeness, infidelity 不調(ふちょう): bad condition, not to work out (ie a deal), disagreement, break-off, disorder, slump, out of form 不当(ふとう): injustice, impropriety, unreasonableness, undeservedness, unfair, invalid 不動産(ふどうさん): real estate 不評(ふひょう): bad reputation, disgrace, unpopularity 不便(ふびん): pity, compassion 不服(ふふく): dissatisfaction, discontent, disapproval, objection, complaint, protest, disagreement 不明(ふめい): unknown, obscure, indistinct, uncertain, ambiguous, ignorant, lack of wisdom, anonymous, unidentified 不良(ふりょう): badness, delinquent, inferiority, failure 不味い(まずい): unappetising, unpleasant (taste appearance situation), ugly, unskilful, awkward, bungling, unwise, untimely 不安(ふあん): anxiety, uneasiness, insecurity, suspense 不運(ふうん): unlucky, misfortune, bad luck, fate 不可(ふか): wrong, bad, improper, unjustifiable, inadvisable 不規則(ふきそく): irregularity, unsteadiness, disorderly 不潔(ふけつ): unclean, dirty, filthy, impure 不幸(ふこう): unhappiness, sorrow, misfortune, disaster, accident, death 不思議(ふしぎ): wonder, miracle, strange, mystery, marvel, curiosity 不自由(ふじゆう): discomfort, disability, inconvenience, destitution 不正(ふせい): injustice, unfairness, iniquity, impropriety, irregularity, dishonesty, illegality 不足(ふそく): insufficiency, shortage, deficiency, lack 不通(ふつう): suspension, interruption, stoppage, tie-up, cessation 不平(ふへい): complaint, discontent, dissatisfaction 不満(ふまん): dissatisfaction, displeasure, discontent, complaints, unhappiness 不利(ふり): disadvantage, handicap, unfavorable, drawback 不便(ふべん): inconvenience Kunyomi: Onyomi: フ、ブ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 不当 (ふとう), 不利 (ふり), 不賛成 (ふさんせい)"	"negative 不 画数4 1302 Details Story Dictionary 不 negative Heisig's You may play with the primitives of this kanji as you wish (ceiling . . . person . . . a drop of), but you will probably find that its simplicity, and its frequency, make it easy to remember just as it is. Koohii #1 [Smithsonian] Scene: Mr. T hanging from the ceiling being tortured. He is asked if he is going to talk. Spitting (a drop of saliva) in the torturer´s face, he says ""Negative"". Koohii #2 One below zero is a negative number. Primitives negative, one, ceiling, person, drop 不意(ふい): sudden, abrupt, unexpected, unforeseen 不可欠(ふかけつ): indispensable, essential 不吉(ふきつ): ominous, sinister, bad luck, ill omen, inauspiciousness 不況(ふきょう): recession, depression, slump 不景気(ふけいき): business recession, hard times, depression, gloom, sullenness, cheerlessness 不在(ふざい): absence 不山戯る(ふざける): to romp, to gambol, to frolic, to joke, to make fun of, to flirt 不順(ふじゅん): irregularity, unseasonableness 不振(ふしん): dullness, depression, slump, stagnation 不審(ふしん): incomplete understanding, doubt, question, distrust, suspicion, strangeness, infidelity 不調(ふちょう): bad condition, not to work out (ie a deal), disagreement, break-off, disorder, slump, out of form 不当(ふとう): injustice, impropriety, unreasonableness, undeservedness, unfair, invalid 不動産(ふどうさん): real estate 不評(ふひょう): bad reputation, disgrace, unpopularity 不便(ふびん): pity, compassion 不服(ふふく): dissatisfaction, discontent, disapproval, objection, complaint, protest, disagreement 不明(ふめい): unknown, obscure, indistinct, uncertain, ambiguous, ignorant, lack of wisdom, anonymous, unidentified 不良(ふりょう): badness, delinquent, inferiority, failure 不味い(まずい): unappetising, unpleasant (taste appearance situation), ugly, unskilful, awkward, bungling, unwise, untimely 不安(ふあん): anxiety, uneasiness, insecurity, suspense 不運(ふうん): unlucky, misfortune, bad luck, fate 不可(ふか): wrong, bad, improper, unjustifiable, inadvisable 不規則(ふきそく): irregularity, unsteadiness, disorderly 不潔(ふけつ): unclean, dirty, filthy, impure 不幸(ふこう): unhappiness, sorrow, misfortune, disaster, accident, death 不思議(ふしぎ): wonder, miracle, strange, mystery, marvel, curiosity 不自由(ふじゆう): discomfort, disability, inconvenience, destitution 不正(ふせい): injustice, unfairness, iniquity, impropriety, irregularity, dishonesty, illegality 不足(ふそく): insufficiency, shortage, deficiency, lack 不通(ふつう): suspension, interruption, stoppage, tie-up, cessation 不平(ふへい): complaint, discontent, dissatisfaction 不満(ふまん): dissatisfaction, displeasure, discontent, complaints, unhappiness 不利(ふり): disadvantage, handicap, unfavorable, drawback 不便(ふべん): inconvenience Kunyomi: Onyomi: フ、ブ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 不当 (ふとう), 不利 (ふり), 不賛成 (ふさんせい)"
negate Details Story Dictionary 否 negate Heisig's Negative . . . mouth. Koohii #1 To distinguish between 否 negate, and 不 negative (#1217): Note that negate contains 口, which is a kind of gate. Koohii #2 Negative mouths negate everything. Primitives negate, negative, mouth 拒否(きょひ): denial, veto, rejection, refusal 否決(ひけつ): rejection, negation, voting down 否(いや): no, nay, yes, well 否定(ひてい): negation, denial, repudiation Kunyomi: いな、いや Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 否 (いな)	negate 否 画数7 1303 Details Story Dictionary 否 negate Heisig's Negative . . . mouth. Koohii #1 To distinguish between 否 negate, and 不 negative (#1217): Note that negate contains 口, which is a kind of gate. Koohii #2 Negative mouths negate everything. Primitives negate, negative, mouth 拒否(きょひ): denial, veto, rejection, refusal 否決(ひけつ): rejection, negation, voting down 否(いや): no, nay, yes, well 否定(ひてい): negation, denial, repudiation Kunyomi: いな、いや Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 否 (いな)
cupfuls Details Story Dictionary 杯 cupfuls Heisig's Tree . . . negative. Koohii #1 The maple tree is very negative about it, but the farmer still collects cupfuls of maple syrup from it. Koohii #2 A few cupfuls of sake can create a very negative situation. Like smashing into that tree...　　RTK2:　ハイ　一杯　いっぱい(one cupful). Primitives cupfuls, tree, wood, negative 杯(さかずき): wine cups 乾杯(かんぱい): toast (drink) Kunyomi: さかずき Onyomi: ハイ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 杯 (さかずき)	cupfuls 杯 画数8 1304 Details Story Dictionary 杯 cupfuls Heisig's Tree . . . negative. Koohii #1 The maple tree is very negative about it, but the farmer still collects cupfuls of maple syrup from it. Koohii #2 A few cupfuls of sake can create a very negative situation. Like smashing into that tree...　　RTK2:　ハイ　一杯　いっぱい(one cupful). Primitives cupfuls, tree, wood, negative 杯(さかずき): wine cups 乾杯(かんぱい): toast (drink) Kunyomi: さかずき Onyomi: ハイ Lesson: 32 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 杯 (さかずき)
"dart Details Story Dictionary 矢 dart Heisig's When shot high into the heavens, the dart gets so small it looks like a mere drop. Although this character could as well mean ""arrow,"" it has no connection with the primitive of that meaning. Hence the new key word. Koohii #1 Zeus ran out of lightning bolts and has to drop darts from the heavens. Koohii #2 Do not mistake with LOSE 失. Primitives dart, drop, heavens 矢(や): arrow 矢っ張り(やっぱり): also, as I thought, still, in spite of, absolutely 矢印(やじるし): directing arrow Kunyomi: や Onyomi: シ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 矢 (や)"	"dart 矢 画数5 1305 Details Story Dictionary 矢 dart Heisig's When shot high into the heavens, the dart gets so small it looks like a mere drop. Although this character could as well mean ""arrow,"" it has no connection with the primitive of that meaning. Hence the new key word. Koohii #1 Zeus ran out of lightning bolts and has to drop darts from the heavens. Koohii #2 Do not mistake with LOSE 失. Primitives dart, drop, heavens 矢(や): arrow 矢っ張り(やっぱり): also, as I thought, still, in spite of, absolutely 矢印(やじるし): directing arrow Kunyomi: や Onyomi: シ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 矢 (や)"
rectify Details Story Dictionary 矯 rectify Heisig's Dart . . . angel. Compare your stories for correct (Frame 405), revise (Frame 362), and reformation (Frame 567). Koohii #1 Angels have now been given a powerful tool to rectify human behavior instantly, without delay - they have been allowed to drop darts on those who misbehave... spare the dart and spoil the man... Koohii #2 The darts of the angel Cupid are supposed to bring people joy, but usually just make things a lot worse. Here we see another angel flying around shooting people with the anti-darts (antidote), to rectify the situation. Primitives rectify, dart, drop, heavens, angel, heavens, mouth, hood, mouth, mouth2 Kunyomi: た.める Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 矯める (た.める)	rectify 矯 画数17 1306 Details Story Dictionary 矯 rectify Heisig's Dart . . . angel. Compare your stories for correct (Frame 405), revise (Frame 362), and reformation (Frame 567). Koohii #1 Angels have now been given a powerful tool to rectify human behavior instantly, without delay - they have been allowed to drop darts on those who misbehave... spare the dart and spoil the man... Koohii #2 The darts of the angel Cupid are supposed to bring people joy, but usually just make things a lot worse. Here we see another angel flying around shooting people with the anti-darts (antidote), to rectify the situation. Primitives rectify, dart, drop, heavens, angel, heavens, mouth, hood, mouth, mouth2 Kunyomi: た.める Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 矯める (た.める)
"tribe Details Story Dictionary 族 tribe Heisig's Banner . . . dart. Koohii #1 With a banner declaring ""Keep Out!"" and blow darts to back it up, the Amazon tribe is not that friendly. Koohii #2 Once tribes shot darts under their war banners, now they are putting banner ads on the internet for betting on dart-games at their casinos :(. Primitives tribe, banner, direction, compass, direction, reclining, lying down, dart, drop, heavens 貴族(きぞく): noble, aristocrat 民族(みんぞく): people, race, nation, racial customs, folk customs 家族(かぞく): family, members of a family Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゾク Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:"	"tribe 族 画数11 1307 Details Story Dictionary 族 tribe Heisig's Banner . . . dart. Koohii #1 With a banner declaring ""Keep Out!"" and blow darts to back it up, the Amazon tribe is not that friendly. Koohii #2 Once tribes shot darts under their war banners, now they are putting banner ads on the internet for betting on dart-games at their casinos :(. Primitives tribe, banner, direction, compass, direction, reclining, lying down, dart, drop, heavens 貴族(きぞく): noble, aristocrat 民族(みんぞく): people, race, nation, racial customs, folk customs 家族(かぞく): family, members of a family Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゾク Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:"
know Details Story Dictionary 知 know Heisig's Dart . . . mouth. Koohii #1 I should know. After all, I did graduate from Dartmouth! Koohii #2 [know; wisdom] [An arrow 矢 like mouth 口] If you know the answers, they will fly like darts from your mouth. Primitives know, dart, drop, heavens, mouth 旧知(きゅうち): old friend, old friendship 知り合い(しりあい): acquaintance 知人(ちじん): friend, acquaintance 知性(ちせい): intelligence 知的(ちてき): intellectual 未知(みち): not yet known 無知(むち): ignorance 知らせ(しらせ): notice 知恵(ちえ): wisdom, wit, sagacity, sense, intelligence, advice 知事(ちじ): prefectural governor 知識(ちしき): knowledge, information 知能(ちのう): intelligence, brains 通知(つうち): notice, notification 承知(しょうち): consent, agree 知らせる(しらせる): let know, inform, tell 知る(しる): know, understand, be acquainted with, feel Kunyomi: し.る、し.らせる Onyomi: チ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 知 (しる)	know 知 画数8 1308 Details Story Dictionary 知 know Heisig's Dart . . . mouth. Koohii #1 I should know. After all, I did graduate from Dartmouth! Koohii #2 [know; wisdom] [An arrow 矢 like mouth 口] If you know the answers, they will fly like darts from your mouth. Primitives know, dart, drop, heavens, mouth 旧知(きゅうち): old friend, old friendship 知り合い(しりあい): acquaintance 知人(ちじん): friend, acquaintance 知性(ちせい): intelligence 知的(ちてき): intellectual 未知(みち): not yet known 無知(むち): ignorance 知らせ(しらせ): notice 知恵(ちえ): wisdom, wit, sagacity, sense, intelligence, advice 知事(ちじ): prefectural governor 知識(ちしき): knowledge, information 知能(ちのう): intelligence, brains 通知(つうち): notice, notification 承知(しょうち): consent, agree 知らせる(しらせる): let know, inform, tell 知る(しる): know, understand, be acquainted with, feel Kunyomi: し.る、し.らせる Onyomi: チ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 知 (しる)
wisdom Details Story Dictionary 智 wisdom Heisig's Know . . . sun. Koohii #1 Wisdom is knowing everything OVER the sun (fools assume everything UNDER). Koohii #2 Knowing more each day, brings wisdom. Primitives wisdom, know, dart, drop, heavens, mouth, sun, day, tongue wagging Kunyomi: Onyomi: チ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	wisdom 智 画数12 1309 Details Story Dictionary 智 wisdom Heisig's Know . . . sun. Koohii #1 Wisdom is knowing everything OVER the sun (fools assume everything UNDER). Koohii #2 Knowing more each day, brings wisdom. Primitives wisdom, know, dart, drop, heavens, mouth, sun, day, tongue wagging Kunyomi: Onyomi: チ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
shove Details Story Dictionary 挨 shove Heisig's Fingers . . . elbow . . . dart. Koohii #1 In the busy pub, one of the dart players shoved his dart into my elbow by accident when it nearly slipped out of his fingers. Koohii #2 Your fingers slip when someone´s elbow shoves you, causing you to drop the dart you were about to throw. But as you can see, their elbow is very small, so you decide they´re too weak to shove back. Primitives shove, finger, fingers, elbow, dart, drop, heavens 挨拶(あいさつ): greeting Kunyomi: ひら.く Onyomi: アイ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	shove 挨 画数10 1310 Details Story Dictionary 挨 shove Heisig's Fingers . . . elbow . . . dart. Koohii #1 In the busy pub, one of the dart players shoved his dart into my elbow by accident when it nearly slipped out of his fingers. Koohii #2 Your fingers slip when someone´s elbow shoves you, causing you to drop the dart you were about to throw. But as you can see, their elbow is very small, so you decide they´re too weak to shove back. Primitives shove, finger, fingers, elbow, dart, drop, heavens 挨拶(あいさつ): greeting Kunyomi: ひら.く Onyomi: アイ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
halberd Details Story Dictionary 矛 halberd Heisig's The halberd's battle-ax head and long shaft are depicted here. Take care with the number and order of the strokes. Koohii #1 マオ Zedong always carried a halberd. Koohii #2 Make the halberd a heroic warrior (perhaps of scandinavian origin) who weilds this polearm - the most effective, brutal and vicious one - with great skill. He can use it to hook, pierce and chop (the three strokes). Primitives halberd, beforehand 矛盾(むじゅん): contradiction, inconsistency Kunyomi: ほこ Onyomi: ム、ボウ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 矛 (ほこ)	halberd 矛 画数5 1311 Details Story Dictionary 矛 halberd Heisig's The halberd's battle-ax head and long shaft are depicted here. Take care with the number and order of the strokes. Koohii #1 マオ Zedong always carried a halberd. Koohii #2 Make the halberd a heroic warrior (perhaps of scandinavian origin) who weilds this polearm - the most effective, brutal and vicious one - with great skill. He can use it to hook, pierce and chop (the three strokes). Primitives halberd, beforehand 矛盾(むじゅん): contradiction, inconsistency Kunyomi: ほこ Onyomi: ム、ボウ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 矛 (ほこ)
tender Details Story Dictionary 柔 tender Heisig's Halberd . . . tree. Koohii #1 [tender; weakness; gentleness; softness] Love me tender, Love me perfect, Never cheat on me. Or I´ll impale you on my Halberd, And hang ya atop a tree... Koohii #2 Use a halberd to tenderize a tree: halberds can chop, poke, and slash, so it´s all good! Primitives tender, halberd, beforehand, tree, wood 柔軟(じゅうなん): flexible, lithe 柔道(じゅうどう): judo 柔らかい(やわらかい): soft Kunyomi: やわ.らか、やわ.らかい、やわ、やわ.ら Onyomi: ジュウ、ニュウ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 柔軟 (じゅうなん), 柔道 (じゅうどう), 懐柔 (かいじゅう), 柔らか (やわ.らか), 柔らかい (やわ.らかい)	tender 柔 画数9 1312 Details Story Dictionary 柔 tender Heisig's Halberd . . . tree. Koohii #1 [tender; weakness; gentleness; softness] Love me tender, Love me perfect, Never cheat on me. Or I´ll impale you on my Halberd, And hang ya atop a tree... Koohii #2 Use a halberd to tenderize a tree: halberds can chop, poke, and slash, so it´s all good! Primitives tender, halberd, beforehand, tree, wood 柔軟(じゅうなん): flexible, lithe 柔道(じゅうどう): judo 柔らかい(やわらかい): soft Kunyomi: やわ.らか、やわ.らかい、やわ、やわ.ら Onyomi: ジュウ、ニュウ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 柔軟 (じゅうなん), 柔道 (じゅうどう), 懐柔 (かいじゅう), 柔らか (やわ.らか), 柔らかい (やわ.らかい)
"task Details Story Dictionary 務 task My Story *Mao Zedong's* task as the *director* of *force* and power is too spread communism Koohii #1 It is with the halberd he holds that the taskmaster exerts his power over those actually performing the task. Koohii #2 So many video games have a ""boss"" stage you must pass in order to advance to the next level. Here, your task is to use your halberd to beat the taskmaster with the huge, bulging muscles. Primitives task, halberd, beforehand, taskmaster, power, muscle, arnold 業務(ぎょうむ): business, affairs, duties, work 勤務(きんむ): service, duty, work 公務(こうむ): official business, public business 職務(しょくむ): professional duties 庶務(しょむ): general affairs 税務署(ぜいむしょ): tax office 責務(せきむ): duty, obligation 務める(つとめる): to serve, to fill a post, to serve under, to exert oneself, to endeavor, to be diligent, to play (the part of), to work (for) 任務(にんむ): duty, function, office, mission, task 義務(ぎむ): duty, obligation, responsibility 事務(じむ): business, office work 務め(つとめ): service, duty, business, responsibility, task 公務員(こうむいん): public servant 事務所(じむしょ): office Kunyomi: つと.める Onyomi: ム Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 務める (つと.める)"	"task 務 画数11 1313 Details Story Dictionary 務 task My Story *Mao Zedong's* task as the *director* of *force* and power is too spread communism Koohii #1 It is with the halberd he holds that the taskmaster exerts his power over those actually performing the task. Koohii #2 So many video games have a ""boss"" stage you must pass in order to advance to the next level. Here, your task is to use your halberd to beat the taskmaster with the huge, bulging muscles. Primitives task, halberd, beforehand, taskmaster, power, muscle, arnold 業務(ぎょうむ): business, affairs, duties, work 勤務(きんむ): service, duty, work 公務(こうむ): official business, public business 職務(しょくむ): professional duties 庶務(しょむ): general affairs 税務署(ぜいむしょ): tax office 責務(せきむ): duty, obligation 務める(つとめる): to serve, to fill a post, to serve under, to exert oneself, to endeavor, to be diligent, to play (the part of), to work (for) 任務(にんむ): duty, function, office, mission, task 義務(ぎむ): duty, obligation, responsibility 事務(じむ): business, office work 務め(つとめ): service, duty, business, responsibility, task 公務員(こうむいん): public servant 事務所(じむしょ): office Kunyomi: つと.める Onyomi: ム Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 務める (つと.める)"
fog Details Story Dictionary 霧 fog Heisig's Weather/rain . . . task. Koohii #1 This fog is the perfect weather for us to perform our task undetected. Koohii #2 FOG is easy to associate with the RAIN primitive. So think of FOG as a type of RAIN that is slow at the TASK of getting the place wet. Primitives fog, rain, weather, task, halberd, beforehand, taskmaster, power, muscle, arnold 霧(きり): fog, mist Kunyomi: きり Onyomi: ム、ボウ、ブ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 霧 (きり)	fog 霧 画数19 1314 Details Story Dictionary 霧 fog Heisig's Weather/rain . . . task. Koohii #1 This fog is the perfect weather for us to perform our task undetected. Koohii #2 FOG is easy to associate with the RAIN primitive. So think of FOG as a type of RAIN that is slow at the TASK of getting the place wet. Primitives fog, rain, weather, task, halberd, beforehand, taskmaster, power, muscle, arnold 霧(きり): fog, mist Kunyomi: きり Onyomi: ム、ボウ、ブ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 霧 (きり)
"squad Details Story Dictionary 班 squad Heisig's Spear . . . two balls. Koohii #1 Am I the only one who took this as penis and balls? In order to be in the man-squad, naturally you need to have two balls with your ""spear"" in the middle there. Koohii #2 Here we have two kings trying out for the cheer-leading squad. A spear on the floor separates their dancing areas. Primitives squad, sword, spear, cutlass, king, jewel, ball, king2, jewel2, ball2 班(はん): group, party, section (mil) Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"squad 班 画数10 1315 Details Story Dictionary 班 squad Heisig's Spear . . . two balls. Koohii #1 Am I the only one who took this as penis and balls? In order to be in the man-squad, naturally you need to have two balls with your ""spear"" in the middle there. Koohii #2 Here we have two kings trying out for the cheer-leading squad. A spear on the floor separates their dancing areas. Primitives squad, sword, spear, cutlass, king, jewel, ball, king2, jewel2, ball2 班(はん): group, party, section (mil) Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
homecoming Details Story Dictionary 帰 homecoming Heisig's Spear . . . broom . . . apron. The character for lady (Frame 1234) shares the same right side as this character, which does not bode for a very happy homecoming. Koohii #1 A female warrior returns home from battle. Her husband takes away her spear to symbolize the end of fighting and gives her a broom and an apron. “Boy, this is some kind of HOMECOMING,” thinks the veteran. (Adapted from johnskb). Koohii #2 Well, the boss man warrior upon his homecoming has set aside his spear. Remember the lady (#1151) (who put aside her broom and apron)? I wonder what they´re doing now? Primitives homecoming, sword, spear, cutlass, feather duster, broom, apron, crown, towel 帰す(かえす): to send back 帰京(ききょう): returning to Tokyo 帰宅(きたく): returning home 日帰り(ひがえり): day trip 帰り(かえり): return (noun) 帰る(かえる): go back, go home, come home, return Kunyomi: かえ.る、かえ.す、おく.る、とつ.ぐ Onyomi: キ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 帰す (かえ.す), 帰る (かえ.る)	homecoming 帰 画数10 1316 Details Story Dictionary 帰 homecoming Heisig's Spear . . . broom . . . apron. The character for lady (Frame 1234) shares the same right side as this character, which does not bode for a very happy homecoming. Koohii #1 A female warrior returns home from battle. Her husband takes away her spear to symbolize the end of fighting and gives her a broom and an apron. “Boy, this is some kind of HOMECOMING,” thinks the veteran. (Adapted from johnskb). Koohii #2 Well, the boss man warrior upon his homecoming has set aside his spear. Remember the lady (#1151) (who put aside her broom and apron)? I wonder what they´re doing now? Primitives homecoming, sword, spear, cutlass, feather duster, broom, apron, crown, towel 帰す(かえす): to send back 帰京(ききょう): returning to Tokyo 帰宅(きたく): returning home 日帰り(ひがえり): day trip 帰り(かえり): return (noun) 帰る(かえる): go back, go home, come home, return Kunyomi: かえ.る、かえ.す、おく.る、とつ.ぐ Onyomi: キ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 帰す (かえ.す), 帰る (かえ.る)
bow Details Story Dictionary 弓 bow Heisig's This character pictures the bent wooden bow. Later we will learn how to make the bowstring that goes with it (Frame 1490). If you stretch this character out and see the indentation on the left as its handle, the pictography should be clearer. Koohii #1 My personification for this primative is Legolas from the Lord of the Rings: a master at the bow. I suppose robin hood etc would work too. Koohii #2 I have a BOW made from a SNAKE that I BOUND UP. He sure wasn´t happy! Primitives bow 弓(ゆみ): bow (and arrow) Kunyomi: ゆみ Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 弓 (ゆみ)	bow 弓 画数3 1317 Details Story Dictionary 弓 bow Heisig's This character pictures the bent wooden bow. Later we will learn how to make the bowstring that goes with it (Frame 1490). If you stretch this character out and see the indentation on the left as its handle, the pictography should be clearer. Koohii #1 My personification for this primative is Legolas from the Lord of the Rings: a master at the bow. I suppose robin hood etc would work too. Koohii #2 I have a BOW made from a SNAKE that I BOUND UP. He sure wasn´t happy! Primitives bow 弓(ゆみ): bow (and arrow) Kunyomi: ゆみ Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 弓 (ゆみ)
pull Details Story Dictionary 引 pull Heisig's Bow . . . walking stick. Koohii #1 Put a walking stick in the bow and pull it back, ready to fire at the geezer. Koohii #2 This is actually a bow and an arrow. (Real origin of this kanji). Pull and release to fire! Primitives pull, bow, stick 籤引(くじびき): lottery, drawn lot 差し引く(さしひく): to deduct 手引き(てびき): guidance, guide, introduction 取り引き(とりひき): transactions, dealings, business 値引き(ねびき): price reduction, discount 引き上げる(ひきあげる): to withdraw, to leave, to pull out, to retire 引き受ける(ひきうける): to undertake, to take up, to take over, to be responsible for, to guarantee, to contract (disease) 引き起こす(ひきおこす): to cause 引き下げる(ひきさげる): to pull down, to lower, to reduce, to withdraw 引きずる(ひきずる): to seduce, to drag along, to pull, to prolong, to support 引き出す(ひきだす): to pull out, to take out, to draw out, to withdraw 引き取る(ひきとる): to take charge of, to take over, to retire to a private place 引き分け(ひきわけ): a draw (in competition), tie game 引っ掻く(ひっかく): to scratch 引っ掛ける(ひっかける): to hang (something) on (something), to throw on (clothes), to hook, to catch, to trap, to ensnare, to cheat, to evade payment, to jump a bill, to drink (alcohol), to spit at (a person), to hit the ball off the end of the bat (baseball) 引用(いんよう): quotation, citation 引退(いんたい): retire 引力(いんりょく): gravity 強引(ごういん): overbearing, coercive, pushy, high-handed 索引(さくいん): index, indices 差し引き(さしひき): deduction, subtraction, balance, ebb and flow, rise and fall 長引く(ながびく): be prolonged, drag on 引受る(ひきうける): undertake, take charge of, take, accept, be responsible for, guarantee 引返す(ひきかえす): repeat, send back, bring back, retrace one´s steps 引算(ひきざん): subtraction 引出す(ひきだす): pull out, take out, draw out, withdraw 引き止める(ひきとめる): detain, restrain 引分け(ひきわけ): tie game, draw 引っ掛かる(ひっかかる): be caught in, be stuck in, be cheated 引っ繰り返す(ひっくりかえす): turn over, overturn, knock over, upset, turn inside out 引っ繰り返る(ひっくりかえる): be overturned, be upset, topple over, be reversed 引越し(ひっこし): moving (dwelling, office, etc.), changing residence 引っ込む(ひっこむ): draw back, sink, cave in 引っ張る(ひっぱる): pull, draw, stretch, drag 割引(わりびき): discount, reduction, rebate, tenths discounted 引き出し(ひきだし): drawer 引っ越す(ひっこす): move to (house) 字引(じびき): dictionary 引く(ひく): minus, pull, draw, play (string instr.) Kunyomi: ひ.く、ひ.き、ひ.き-、-び.き、ひ.ける Onyomi: イン Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 引く (ひ.く), 引ける (ひ.ける)	pull 引 画数4 1318 Details Story Dictionary 引 pull Heisig's Bow . . . walking stick. Koohii #1 Put a walking stick in the bow and pull it back, ready to fire at the geezer. Koohii #2 This is actually a bow and an arrow. (Real origin of this kanji). Pull and release to fire! Primitives pull, bow, stick 籤引(くじびき): lottery, drawn lot 差し引く(さしひく): to deduct 手引き(てびき): guidance, guide, introduction 取り引き(とりひき): transactions, dealings, business 値引き(ねびき): price reduction, discount 引き上げる(ひきあげる): to withdraw, to leave, to pull out, to retire 引き受ける(ひきうける): to undertake, to take up, to take over, to be responsible for, to guarantee, to contract (disease) 引き起こす(ひきおこす): to cause 引き下げる(ひきさげる): to pull down, to lower, to reduce, to withdraw 引きずる(ひきずる): to seduce, to drag along, to pull, to prolong, to support 引き出す(ひきだす): to pull out, to take out, to draw out, to withdraw 引き取る(ひきとる): to take charge of, to take over, to retire to a private place 引き分け(ひきわけ): a draw (in competition), tie game 引っ掻く(ひっかく): to scratch 引っ掛ける(ひっかける): to hang (something) on (something), to throw on (clothes), to hook, to catch, to trap, to ensnare, to cheat, to evade payment, to jump a bill, to drink (alcohol), to spit at (a person), to hit the ball off the end of the bat (baseball) 引用(いんよう): quotation, citation 引退(いんたい): retire 引力(いんりょく): gravity 強引(ごういん): overbearing, coercive, pushy, high-handed 索引(さくいん): index, indices 差し引き(さしひき): deduction, subtraction, balance, ebb and flow, rise and fall 長引く(ながびく): be prolonged, drag on 引受る(ひきうける): undertake, take charge of, take, accept, be responsible for, guarantee 引返す(ひきかえす): repeat, send back, bring back, retrace one´s steps 引算(ひきざん): subtraction 引出す(ひきだす): pull out, take out, draw out, withdraw 引き止める(ひきとめる): detain, restrain 引分け(ひきわけ): tie game, draw 引っ掛かる(ひっかかる): be caught in, be stuck in, be cheated 引っ繰り返す(ひっくりかえす): turn over, overturn, knock over, upset, turn inside out 引っ繰り返る(ひっくりかえる): be overturned, be upset, topple over, be reversed 引越し(ひっこし): moving (dwelling, office, etc.), changing residence 引っ込む(ひっこむ): draw back, sink, cave in 引っ張る(ひっぱる): pull, draw, stretch, drag 割引(わりびき): discount, reduction, rebate, tenths discounted 引き出し(ひきだし): drawer 引っ越す(ひっこす): move to (house) 字引(じびき): dictionary 引く(ひく): minus, pull, draw, play (string instr.) Kunyomi: ひ.く、ひ.き、ひ.き-、-び.き、ひ.ける Onyomi: イン Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 引く (ひ.く), 引ける (ひ.ける)
condolences Details Story Dictionary 弔 condolences Heisig's A bow . . . wrapped around a walking stick. Koohii #1 Perhaps a pictograph of a soldier´s weapons--his sword and bow-placed ceremonially over his body before burial, while people offer their condolences. Koohii #2 Send your condolences to the old geezer whom you shot the walking stick into with your bow. (see pull (#1232)). Primitives condolences, bow, walking stick Kunyomi: とむら.う、とぶら.う Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 弔う (とむら.う)	condolences 弔 画数4 1319 Details Story Dictionary 弔 condolences Heisig's A bow . . . wrapped around a walking stick. Koohii #1 Perhaps a pictograph of a soldier´s weapons--his sword and bow-placed ceremonially over his body before burial, while people offer their condolences. Koohii #2 Send your condolences to the old geezer whom you shot the walking stick into with your bow. (see pull (#1232)). Primitives condolences, bow, walking stick Kunyomi: とむら.う、とぶら.う Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 弔う (とむら.う)
vast Details Story Dictionary 弘 vast Heisig's Bow . . . elbow. Koohii #1 If you pull the bow back with your elbow, you can shoot a vast distance. Koohii #2 The valley was so vast that if you yelled elbow! you could hear it echo bow, bow, bow. Primitives vast, bow, elbow Kunyomi: ひろ.い Onyomi: コウ、グ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	vast 弘 画数5 1320 Details Story Dictionary 弘 vast Heisig's Bow . . . elbow. Koohii #1 If you pull the bow back with your elbow, you can shoot a vast distance. Koohii #2 The valley was so vast that if you yelled elbow! you could hear it echo bow, bow, bow. Primitives vast, bow, elbow Kunyomi: ひろ.い Onyomi: コウ、グ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
strong Details Story Dictionary 強 strong Heisig's Vast . . . insect. Note how the elbow of vast is shrunken and elevated to make room for the insect beneath. Koohii #1 An insect who can fly vast distances is strong. Koohii #2 Legolas is so strong that he can even shoot down vast numbers of tiny insects at vast distances with ease. Primitives strong, bow, elbow, insect 強行(きょうこう): forcing, enforcement 強硬(きょうこう): firm, vigorous, unbending, unyielding, strong, stubborn 強制(きょうせい): obligation, coercion, compulsion, enforcement 強烈(きょうれつ): strong, intense, severe 強気(ごうぎ): great, grand 心強い(こころづよい): heartening, reassuring 強いて(しいて): by force 強いる(しいる): to force, to compel, to coerce 増強(ぞうきょう): augment, reinforce, increase 強まる(つよまる): to get strong, to gain strength 強める(つよめる): to strengthen, to emphasize 強請る(ねだる): to tease, to coax, to solicit, to demand 補強(ほきょう): compensation, reinforcement 強化(きょうか): strengthen, intensify, reinforce, solidify 強調(きょうちょう): emphasis, stress, stressed point 強力(きょうりょく): powerful, strong 強引(ごういん): overbearing, coercive, pushy, high-handed 強盗(ごうとう): robbery, burglary 力強い(ちからづよい): reassuring, emboldened 強気(つよき): firm, strong 強い(つよい): strong, powerful, mighty, potent 勉強(べんきょう): study, diligence, discount, reduction Kunyomi: つよ.い、つよ.まる、つよ.める、し.いる、こわ.い Onyomi: キョウ、ゴウ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 強弱 (きょうじゃく), 強要 (きょうよう), 勉強 (べんきょう), 強いる (し.いる), 強い (つよ.い), 強まる (つよ.まる), 強める (つよ.める)	strong 強 画数11 1321 Details Story Dictionary 強 strong Heisig's Vast . . . insect. Note how the elbow of vast is shrunken and elevated to make room for the insect beneath. Koohii #1 An insect who can fly vast distances is strong. Koohii #2 Legolas is so strong that he can even shoot down vast numbers of tiny insects at vast distances with ease. Primitives strong, bow, elbow, insect 強行(きょうこう): forcing, enforcement 強硬(きょうこう): firm, vigorous, unbending, unyielding, strong, stubborn 強制(きょうせい): obligation, coercion, compulsion, enforcement 強烈(きょうれつ): strong, intense, severe 強気(ごうぎ): great, grand 心強い(こころづよい): heartening, reassuring 強いて(しいて): by force 強いる(しいる): to force, to compel, to coerce 増強(ぞうきょう): augment, reinforce, increase 強まる(つよまる): to get strong, to gain strength 強める(つよめる): to strengthen, to emphasize 強請る(ねだる): to tease, to coax, to solicit, to demand 補強(ほきょう): compensation, reinforcement 強化(きょうか): strengthen, intensify, reinforce, solidify 強調(きょうちょう): emphasis, stress, stressed point 強力(きょうりょく): powerful, strong 強引(ごういん): overbearing, coercive, pushy, high-handed 強盗(ごうとう): robbery, burglary 力強い(ちからづよい): reassuring, emboldened 強気(つよき): firm, strong 強い(つよい): strong, powerful, mighty, potent 勉強(べんきょう): study, diligence, discount, reduction Kunyomi: つよ.い、つよ.まる、つよ.める、し.いる、こわ.い Onyomi: キョウ、ゴウ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 強弱 (きょうじゃく), 強要 (きょうよう), 勉強 (べんきょう), 強いる (し.いる), 強い (つよ.い), 強まる (つよ.まる), 強める (つよ.める)
more and more Details Story Dictionary 弥 more and more Heisig's Bow . . . reclining . . . little. Koohii #1 The bow dug more and more into the small of his back as he reclined on it. Will someone please tell the idiot to get up? Koohii #2 If I recline back, I can pull my bow open a little more and more. Primitives more and more, bow, hammock, reclining, lying down, small, little Kunyomi: いや、や、あまねし、いよいよ、とおい、ひさし、ひさ.しい、わた.る Onyomi: ミ、ビ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 弥 (や)	more and more 弥 画数8 1322 Details Story Dictionary 弥 more and more Heisig's Bow . . . reclining . . . little. Koohii #1 The bow dug more and more into the small of his back as he reclined on it. Will someone please tell the idiot to get up? Koohii #2 If I recline back, I can pull my bow open a little more and more. Primitives more and more, bow, hammock, reclining, lying down, small, little Kunyomi: いや、や、あまねし、いよいよ、とおい、ひさし、ひさ.しい、わた.る Onyomi: ミ、ビ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 弥 (や)
weak Details Story Dictionary 弱 weak Heisig's Two bows . . with ice on them. Koohii #1 Two weak archers agree on a duel to the death. They constantly shoot at each other but never manage to hit their target. But what they lack in skill they make up in determination, and they keep shooting for hours, and days, and months, until it´s wintertime and their bows are coated in ice. Koohii #2 BOWS with ICE on them are brittle and WEAK. Primitives weak, bow, ice, bow2, ice2 弱(じゃく): weakness, the weak, little less then 薄弱(はくじゃく): feebleness, weakness, weak 貧弱(ひんじゃく): poor, meagre, insubstantial 弱まる(よわまる): to abate, to weaken, to be emaciated, to be dejected, to be perplexed 弱める(よわめる): to weaken 弱る(よわる): to weaken, to be troubled, to be downcast, to be emaciated, to be dejected, to be perplexed, to impair 弱点(じゃくてん): weak point, weakness 弱い(よわい): weak Kunyomi: よわ.い、よわ.る、よわ.まる、よわ.める Onyomi: ジャク Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 弱い (よわ.い), 弱まる (よわ.まる), 弱める (よわ.める), 弱る (よわ.る)	weak 弱 画数10 1323 Details Story Dictionary 弱 weak Heisig's Two bows . . with ice on them. Koohii #1 Two weak archers agree on a duel to the death. They constantly shoot at each other but never manage to hit their target. But what they lack in skill they make up in determination, and they keep shooting for hours, and days, and months, until it´s wintertime and their bows are coated in ice. Koohii #2 BOWS with ICE on them are brittle and WEAK. Primitives weak, bow, ice, bow2, ice2 弱(じゃく): weakness, the weak, little less then 薄弱(はくじゃく): feebleness, weakness, weak 貧弱(ひんじゃく): poor, meagre, insubstantial 弱まる(よわまる): to abate, to weaken, to be emaciated, to be dejected, to be perplexed 弱める(よわめる): to weaken 弱る(よわる): to weaken, to be troubled, to be downcast, to be emaciated, to be dejected, to be perplexed, to impair 弱点(じゃくてん): weak point, weakness 弱い(よわい): weak Kunyomi: よわ.い、よわ.る、よわ.まる、よわ.める Onyomi: ジャク Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 弱い (よわ.い), 弱まる (よわ.まる), 弱める (よわ.める), 弱る (よわ.る)
"drowning Details Story Dictionary 溺 drowning Heisig's Water . . . weak. Do not confuse the meaning of this key word with ""Drown"" (Frame 763), which is closer to ""founder."" Koohii #1 Weak people placed in the water start drowning. Get some strength in those arms and learn how to swim! Koohii #2 Weak swimmers drowning in the water. Primitives drowning, water, water droplets, water pistol, weak, bow, ice, bow2, ice2 溺れる(おぼれる): be drowned, indulge in Kunyomi: いばり、おぼ.れる Onyomi: デキ、ジョウ、ニョウ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 溺れる (おぼ.れる)"	"drowning 溺 画数13 1324 Details Story Dictionary 溺 drowning Heisig's Water . . . weak. Do not confuse the meaning of this key word with ""Drown"" (Frame 763), which is closer to ""founder."" Koohii #1 Weak people placed in the water start drowning. Get some strength in those arms and learn how to swim! Koohii #2 Weak swimmers drowning in the water. Primitives drowning, water, water droplets, water pistol, weak, bow, ice, bow2, ice2 溺れる(おぼれる): be drowned, indulge in Kunyomi: いばり、おぼ.れる Onyomi: デキ、ジョウ、ニョウ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 溺れる (おぼ.れる)"
seethe Details Story Dictionary 沸 seethe Heisig's Water . . . dollar sign. Koohii #1 Re CharleyGarrett: This liquid looks like ordinary water, but it will instantly seethe when it comes in contact with counterfeit dollar bills. The inventor must be rich (and probably has dollar signs in his eyes). Koohii #2 When his daughter used a lot of water for her shower, the father could practically see the dollar signs, so he was seething with anger. Primitives seethe, water, water droplets, water pistol, dollar, bow, stick, stick2 沸騰(ふっとう): boiling, seething 沸かす(わかす): boil 沸く(わく): boil Kunyomi: わ.く、わ.かす Onyomi: フツ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 沸かす (わ.かす), 沸く (わ.く)	seethe 沸 画数8 1325 Details Story Dictionary 沸 seethe Heisig's Water . . . dollar sign. Koohii #1 Re CharleyGarrett: This liquid looks like ordinary water, but it will instantly seethe when it comes in contact with counterfeit dollar bills. The inventor must be rich (and probably has dollar signs in his eyes). Koohii #2 When his daughter used a lot of water for her shower, the father could practically see the dollar signs, so he was seething with anger. Primitives seethe, water, water droplets, water pistol, dollar, bow, stick, stick2 沸騰(ふっとう): boiling, seething 沸かす(わかす): boil 沸く(わく): boil Kunyomi: わ.く、わ.かす Onyomi: フツ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 沸かす (わ.かす), 沸く (わ.く)
expense Details Story Dictionary 費 expense My Story [Dollar sign ( long 2 + ル) + shellfish/money] A *dollar sign* next to an amount of *money* denotes an expense. Koohii #1 An expense is an expense, whether you put it in dollars or in local money. Koohii #2 A dollar sign next to an amount of money denotes an expense. Primitives expense, dollar, bow, stick, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, stick2 経費(けいひ): expenses, cost, outlay 光熱費(こうねつひ): cost of fuel and light 実費(じっぴ): actual expense, cost price 出費(しゅっぴ): expenses, disbursements 費やす(ついやす): to spend, to devote, to waste 費(ひ): cost, expense 浪費(ろうひ): waste, extravagance 消費(しょうひ): consumption, expenditure 費用(ひよう): cost, expense Kunyomi: つい.やす、つい.える Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 費える (つい.える), 費やす (つい.やす)	expense 費 画数12 1326 Details Story Dictionary 費 expense My Story [Dollar sign ( long 2 + ル) + shellfish/money] A *dollar sign* next to an amount of *money* denotes an expense. Koohii #1 An expense is an expense, whether you put it in dollars or in local money. Koohii #2 A dollar sign next to an amount of money denotes an expense. Primitives expense, dollar, bow, stick, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, stick2 経費(けいひ): expenses, cost, outlay 光熱費(こうねつひ): cost of fuel and light 実費(じっぴ): actual expense, cost price 出費(しゅっぴ): expenses, disbursements 費やす(ついやす): to spend, to devote, to waste 費(ひ): cost, expense 浪費(ろうひ): waste, extravagance 消費(しょうひ): consumption, expenditure 費用(ひよう): cost, expense Kunyomi: つい.やす、つい.える Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 費える (つい.える), 費やす (つい.やす)
"No. Details Story Dictionary 第 No. Heisig's The key word No. is the abbreviation for ""number."" Its elements: bamboo . . . dollar sign. Koohii #1 The No. 1 currency in the world is the dollar. But, the Asian nations are fast catching up and may in reality have already surpassed it. So, let the bamboo represent the No. 2 currencies (the yen, etc.). The reverse order (bamboo on top and the dollar on the bottom) is really a look at the future. Koohii #2 Bamboo bling is the newest Asian Rapper, No. 1 on the charts right now. Primitives no., bamboo, dollar, bow, stick 第(だい): ordinal 第一(だいいち): first, foremost, # 1 次第(しだい): order, precedence, circumstances, immediate(ly), as soon as, dependent upon 落第(らくだい): failure, dropping out of a class Kunyomi: Onyomi: ダイ、テイ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"No. 第 画数11 1327 Details Story Dictionary 第 No. Heisig's The key word No. is the abbreviation for ""number."" Its elements: bamboo . . . dollar sign. Koohii #1 The No. 1 currency in the world is the dollar. But, the Asian nations are fast catching up and may in reality have already surpassed it. So, let the bamboo represent the No. 2 currencies (the yen, etc.). The reverse order (bamboo on top and the dollar on the bottom) is really a look at the future. Koohii #2 Bamboo bling is the newest Asian Rapper, No. 1 on the charts right now. Primitives no., bamboo, dollar, bow, stick 第(だい): ordinal 第一(だいいち): first, foremost, # 1 次第(しだい): order, precedence, circumstances, immediate(ly), as soon as, dependent upon 落第(らくだい): failure, dropping out of a class Kunyomi: Onyomi: ダイ、テイ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
younger brother Details Story Dictionary 弟 younger brother Heisig's Horns . . . dollar sign. Koohii #1 Younger brothers are always more prone to mischief. Mine, you can almost see the little horns on him and the dollar signs on his eyes when he comes up with a money-making scheme. Koohii #2 The younger brother was a horny dollar -chasing bastard. Primitives younger brother, horns, dollar, bow, stick 弟(おと): younger brother 従兄弟(いとこ): male cousin 弟(おとうと): younger brother, faithful service to those older, brotherly affection 兄弟(きょうだい): siblings Kunyomi: おとうと Onyomi: テイ、ダイ、デ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 弟妹 (ていまい), 義弟 (ぎてい), 子弟 (してい), 兄弟 (きょうだい), 弟 (おとうと)	younger brother 弟 画数7 1328 Details Story Dictionary 弟 younger brother Heisig's Horns . . . dollar sign. Koohii #1 Younger brothers are always more prone to mischief. Mine, you can almost see the little horns on him and the dollar signs on his eyes when he comes up with a money-making scheme. Koohii #2 The younger brother was a horny dollar -chasing bastard. Primitives younger brother, horns, dollar, bow, stick 弟(おと): younger brother 従兄弟(いとこ): male cousin 弟(おとうと): younger brother, faithful service to those older, brotherly affection 兄弟(きょうだい): siblings Kunyomi: おとうと Onyomi: テイ、ダイ、デ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 弟妹 (ていまい), 義弟 (ぎてい), 子弟 (してい), 兄弟 (きょうだい), 弟 (おとうと)
adroit Details Story Dictionary 巧 adroit Heisig's Craft . . . snare. Koohii #1 Adroit: dextrous, deft, skillful. Snare is a little generic so I´ll use BEAR TRAP, with huge teeth cartoon style that snares you around the ankle. In the crafting of a bear trap, one must be particularly adroit. Otherwise they will become the victim of their down device. Koohii #2 To be adroit one must have mastered the crafting of snares. Primitives adroit, craft, snare 巧妙(こうみょう): ingenious, skillful, clever, deft 精巧(せいこう): elaborate, delicate, exquisite 巧み(たくみ): skill, cleverness Kunyomi: たく.み、たく.む、うま.い Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 巧み (たく.み)	adroit 巧 画数5 1329 Details Story Dictionary 巧 adroit Heisig's Craft . . . snare. Koohii #1 Adroit: dextrous, deft, skillful. Snare is a little generic so I´ll use BEAR TRAP, with huge teeth cartoon style that snares you around the ankle. In the crafting of a bear trap, one must be particularly adroit. Otherwise they will become the victim of their down device. Koohii #2 To be adroit one must have mastered the crafting of snares. Primitives adroit, craft, snare 巧妙(こうみょう): ingenious, skillful, clever, deft 精巧(せいこう): elaborate, delicate, exquisite 巧み(たくみ): skill, cleverness Kunyomi: たく.み、たく.む、うま.い Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 巧み (たく.み)
"nickname Details Story Dictionary 号 nickname Heisig's Mouth . . . snare. Koohii #1 My nickname is ""No Lips"". Yep, I shouldn´t have put my mouth on that bear trap... Koohii #2 When certain nickname snares to people´s mouths, they will call you that way forever. Primitives nickname, mouth, snare 号(ごう): number, issue 年号(ねんごう): name of an era, year number 記号(きごう): symbol, code 信号(しんごう): traffic lights, signal, semaphore 符号(ふごう): sign, mark, symbol 番号(ばんごう): number, series of digits Kunyomi: さけ.ぶ、よびな Onyomi: ゴウ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"nickname 号 画数5 1330 Details Story Dictionary 号 nickname Heisig's Mouth . . . snare. Koohii #1 My nickname is ""No Lips"". Yep, I shouldn´t have put my mouth on that bear trap... Koohii #2 When certain nickname snares to people´s mouths, they will call you that way forever. Primitives nickname, mouth, snare 号(ごう): number, issue 年号(ねんごう): name of an era, year number 記号(きごう): symbol, code 信号(しんごう): traffic lights, signal, semaphore 符号(ふごう): sign, mark, symbol 番号(ばんごう): number, series of digits Kunyomi: さけ.ぶ、よびな Onyomi: ゴウ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
decay Details Story Dictionary 朽 decay Heisig's Tree . . . snare. Do not confuse with rot (Frame 1099). Koohii #1 This snare isn´t terribly effective, because it´s swinging from a decaying tree. Imagine the tree as being so decayed that when an animal gets caught in the snare, its struggles cause the tree to collapse into a putrid mess. Koohii #2 枯 wither The decay of an animal in the TREE was from something caught in a SNARE. Primitives decay, tree, wood, snare 朽ちる(くちる): to rot Kunyomi: く.ちる Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 朽ちる (く.ちる)	decay 朽 画数6 1331 Details Story Dictionary 朽 decay Heisig's Tree . . . snare. Do not confuse with rot (Frame 1099). Koohii #1 This snare isn´t terribly effective, because it´s swinging from a decaying tree. Imagine the tree as being so decayed that when an animal gets caught in the snare, its struggles cause the tree to collapse into a putrid mess. Koohii #2 枯 wither The decay of an animal in the TREE was from something caught in a SNARE. Primitives decay, tree, wood, snare 朽ちる(くちる): to rot Kunyomi: く.ちる Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 朽ちる (く.ちる)
"boast Details Story Dictionary 誇 boast Heisig's Words . . . St. Bernard dog . . . ceiling . . . snare. Koohii #1 The hunter´s boast: I say, it was a ""big one"", but the snare broke and it got away. (credit to many others before). Koohii #2 A dog owner boasts about how obedient, not how smart, his Saint Bernard dog is. ""Why, my dog will even walk right into a trap if I tell him to. Watch!"" With a single word, ""go!"", his dog obediently runs into a snare trap hanging from the ceiling. In a flash, the dog is netted tightly and swinging from the ceiling. Don´t forget the ceiling! Primitives boast, say, words, keitai, mouth, Batman, large, St. Bernard, chandelier, one, ceiling, snare 誇張(こちょう): exaggeration 誇る(ほこる): to boast of, to be proud of 誇り(ほこり): pride Kunyomi: ほこ.る Onyomi: コ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 誇る (ほこ.る)"	"boast 誇 画数13 1332 Details Story Dictionary 誇 boast Heisig's Words . . . St. Bernard dog . . . ceiling . . . snare. Koohii #1 The hunter´s boast: I say, it was a ""big one"", but the snare broke and it got away. (credit to many others before). Koohii #2 A dog owner boasts about how obedient, not how smart, his Saint Bernard dog is. ""Why, my dog will even walk right into a trap if I tell him to. Watch!"" With a single word, ""go!"", his dog obediently runs into a snare trap hanging from the ceiling. In a flash, the dog is netted tightly and swinging from the ceiling. Don´t forget the ceiling! Primitives boast, say, words, keitai, mouth, Batman, large, St. Bernard, chandelier, one, ceiling, snare 誇張(こちょう): exaggeration 誇る(ほこる): to boast of, to be proud of 誇り(ほこり): pride Kunyomi: ほこ.る Onyomi: コ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 誇る (ほこ.る)"
chin Details Story Dictionary 顎 chin Heisig's Two mouths . . . ceiling . . . snare . . . head. Koohii #1 Your chin is the part of your head under your nostrils that forms the double snare that is your jaw. Koohii #2 Left side is crocodile primative. crocodile´s head´s most prominent feature is his jaw. Primitives chin, mousetrap, mouth, one, ceiling, snare, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, mouth2, one2 顎(あご): chin Kunyomi: あご、あぎと Onyomi: ガク Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 顎 (あご)	chin 顎 画数18 1333 Details Story Dictionary 顎 chin Heisig's Two mouths . . . ceiling . . . snare . . . head. Koohii #1 Your chin is the part of your head under your nostrils that forms the double snare that is your jaw. Koohii #2 Left side is crocodile primative. crocodile´s head´s most prominent feature is his jaw. Primitives chin, mousetrap, mouth, one, ceiling, snare, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, mouth2, one2 顎(あご): chin Kunyomi: あご、あぎと Onyomi: ガク Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 顎 (あご)
dirty Details Story Dictionary 汚 dirty My Story [Water + ] きtanai. Backwards き with drops of dirt coming off it. Koohii #1 A hunter Washes, with WATER, his TWO SNAREs, because they are dirty. Koohii #2 Washing your dirty snare in water, the extra line represents the water level as you submerge the snare. Primitives dirty, water, water droplets, water pistol, snare, one, spike, stick 汚す(けがす): to disgrace, to dishonour 汚らわしい(けがらわしい): filthy, unfair 汚れ(けがれ): uncleanness, impurity, disgrace 汚れる(けがれる): to get dirty, to become dirty 汚染(おせん): pollution, contamination 汚す(よごす): disgrace, dishonour, pollute, contaminate, soil, make dirty, stain 汚れる(よごれる): get dirty 汚い(きたない): dirty, unclean, filthy Kunyomi: けが.す、けが.れる、けが.らわしい、よご.す、よご.れる、きたな.い Onyomi: オ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 汚い (きたな.い), 汚す (けが.す), 汚らわしい (けが.らわしい), 汚れる (けが.れる), 汚す (よご.す), 汚れる (よご.れる)	dirty 汚 画数6 1334 Details Story Dictionary 汚 dirty My Story [Water + ] きtanai. Backwards き with drops of dirt coming off it. Koohii #1 A hunter Washes, with WATER, his TWO SNAREs, because they are dirty. Koohii #2 Washing your dirty snare in water, the extra line represents the water level as you submerge the snare. Primitives dirty, water, water droplets, water pistol, snare, one, spike, stick 汚す(けがす): to disgrace, to dishonour 汚らわしい(けがらわしい): filthy, unfair 汚れ(けがれ): uncleanness, impurity, disgrace 汚れる(けがれる): to get dirty, to become dirty 汚染(おせん): pollution, contamination 汚す(よごす): disgrace, dishonour, pollute, contaminate, soil, make dirty, stain 汚れる(よごれる): get dirty 汚い(きたない): dirty, unclean, filthy Kunyomi: けが.す、けが.れる、けが.らわしい、よご.す、よご.れる、きたな.い Onyomi: オ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 汚い (きたな.い), 汚す (けが.す), 汚らわしい (けが.らわしい), 汚れる (けが.れる), 汚す (よご.す), 汚れる (よご.れる)
bestow Details Story Dictionary 与 bestow My Story [Sling shot prim (No flat line)] Part of the Kanji for 写真 {写} Koohii #1 David went to battle with a slingshot and it only took him one shot to slay Goliath. Partly because of this, the prophet Nathan was later instructed to bestow upon David the throne of all Israel. Koohii #2 In The Legend of Zelda Ocarina of Time, one of the first weapons bestowed on Link was the slingshot. Primitives bestow, slingshot, catapult, one 関与(かんよ): participation, taking part in, participating in, being concerned in 寄与(きよ): contribution, service 与党(よとう): government party, (ruling) party in power, government 与える(あたえる): give, to award 給与(きゅうよ): allowance, grant, supply Kunyomi: あた.える、あずか.る、くみ.する、ともに Onyomi: ヨ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 与える (あた.える)	bestow 与 画数3 1335 Details Story Dictionary 与 bestow My Story [Sling shot prim (No flat line)] Part of the Kanji for 写真 {写} Koohii #1 David went to battle with a slingshot and it only took him one shot to slay Goliath. Partly because of this, the prophet Nathan was later instructed to bestow upon David the throne of all Israel. Koohii #2 In The Legend of Zelda Ocarina of Time, one of the first weapons bestowed on Link was the slingshot. Primitives bestow, slingshot, catapult, one 関与(かんよ): participation, taking part in, participating in, being concerned in 寄与(きよ): contribution, service 与党(よとう): government party, (ruling) party in power, government 与える(あたえる): give, to award 給与(きゅうよ): allowance, grant, supply Kunyomi: あた.える、あずか.る、くみ.する、ともに Onyomi: ヨ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 与える (あた.える)
copy Details Story Dictionary 写 copy My Story [hat + bestow{与}] The flat *crown* that is *bestowed* in coronation ceremonies is usually a copy. Koohii #1 A crown was bestowed to the British royalty museum, but it was only a copy. Koohii #2 True fact: in the UK the right to print a copy of the KJV Bible is bestowed by the crown -- there are only a few authorised bible printers. (see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/King_James_Bible#Copyright_status). Primitives copy, crown, bestow, slingshot, catapult, one 写し(うつし): copy, duplicate, facsimile, transcript 映写(えいしゃ): projection 描写(びょうしゃ): depiction, description, portrayal 写る(うつる): be photographed, be projected 写生(しゃせい): sketch, drawing from nature, portrayal, description 複写(ふくしゃ): copy, duplicate 写す(うつす): copy, photograph 写真(しゃしん): photograph Kunyomi: うつ.す、うつ.る、うつ-、うつ.し Onyomi: シャ、ジャ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 写す (うつ.す), 写る (うつ.る)	copy 写 画数5 1336 Details Story Dictionary 写 copy My Story [hat + bestow{与}] The flat *crown* that is *bestowed* in coronation ceremonies is usually a copy. Koohii #1 A crown was bestowed to the British royalty museum, but it was only a copy. Koohii #2 True fact: in the UK the right to print a copy of the KJV Bible is bestowed by the crown -- there are only a few authorised bible printers. (see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/King_James_Bible#Copyright_status). Primitives copy, crown, bestow, slingshot, catapult, one 写し(うつし): copy, duplicate, facsimile, transcript 映写(えいしゃ): projection 描写(びょうしゃ): depiction, description, portrayal 写る(うつる): be photographed, be projected 写生(しゃせい): sketch, drawing from nature, portrayal, description 複写(ふくしゃ): copy, duplicate 写す(うつす): copy, photograph 写真(しゃしん): photograph Kunyomi: うつ.す、うつ.る、うつ-、うつ.し Onyomi: シャ、ジャ Lesson: 33 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 写す (うつ.す), 写る (うつ.る)
somebody Details Story Dictionary 身 somebody Heisig's The key word somebody was chosen to convey the double meaning of this kanji: body and person. Its composition is based on the nose (which, you will recall, is also the kanji for oneself). The extension of the bottom and far right strokes of that element, together with the unusual diagonal stroke, forms the pictograph of somebody with a prominent paunch. Koohii #1 Somebody was just looking for you. He had a longnose that reaches down below his mouth, and a long jaw that sticks out past his nose, and a scar across his face. (greenapple,16-3-2006) The way to remember that this is somebody rather than someone (#1256) is that the story is full of body descriptions. Koohii #2 Somebody was just looking for you. He had a long nose that reaches down below his mouth, and a long jaw that sticks out past his nose, and a scar across his face. Primitives somebody, nose 受身(うけみ): passive, passive voice 身体(からだ): the body 中身(なかみ): contents, interior, substance, filling, (sword) blade 生身(なまみ): living flesh, flesh and blood, the quick 身近(みぢか): near oneself, close to one, familiar 身なり(みなり): personal appearance 身振り(みぶり): gesture 刺身(さしみ): sliced raw fish 自身(じしん): by oneself, personally 出身(しゅっしん): person´s place of origin, institution from which one graduated, director in charge of employee relations 心身(しんしん): mind and body 身体(しんたい): body, health 身長(しんちょう): height (of body), stature 全身(ぜんしん): the whole body, full-length (portrait) 独身(どくしん): bachelorhood, single, unmarried, celibate 身(み): body, main part, oneself, sword 身分(みぶん): social position, social status Kunyomi: み Onyomi: シン Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: Compounds: 身 (み)	somebody 身 画数7 1337 Details Story Dictionary 身 somebody Heisig's The key word somebody was chosen to convey the double meaning of this kanji: body and person. Its composition is based on the nose (which, you will recall, is also the kanji for oneself). The extension of the bottom and far right strokes of that element, together with the unusual diagonal stroke, forms the pictograph of somebody with a prominent paunch. Koohii #1 Somebody was just looking for you. He had a longnose that reaches down below his mouth, and a long jaw that sticks out past his nose, and a scar across his face. (greenapple,16-3-2006) The way to remember that this is somebody rather than someone (#1256) is that the story is full of body descriptions. Koohii #2 Somebody was just looking for you. He had a long nose that reaches down below his mouth, and a long jaw that sticks out past his nose, and a scar across his face. Primitives somebody, nose 受身(うけみ): passive, passive voice 身体(からだ): the body 中身(なかみ): contents, interior, substance, filling, (sword) blade 生身(なまみ): living flesh, flesh and blood, the quick 身近(みぢか): near oneself, close to one, familiar 身なり(みなり): personal appearance 身振り(みぶり): gesture 刺身(さしみ): sliced raw fish 自身(じしん): by oneself, personally 出身(しゅっしん): person´s place of origin, institution from which one graduated, director in charge of employee relations 心身(しんしん): mind and body 身体(しんたい): body, health 身長(しんちょう): height (of body), stature 全身(ぜんしん): the whole body, full-length (portrait) 独身(どくしん): bachelorhood, single, unmarried, celibate 身(み): body, main part, oneself, sword 身分(みぶん): social position, social status Kunyomi: み Onyomi: シン Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: Compounds: 身 (み)
"shoot Details Story Dictionary 射 shoot Heisig's ""I shot an arrow into the air, And it landed I know not where"" goes the poem. (The poor poet obviously loses a lot of arrows.) This kanji, however, tells us where it did land. Its elements: somebody . . . glued to. Koohii #1 You SHOOT SOMEBODY with a GLUE-gun. Koohii #2 The aim of shooting is to end up with a bullet stuck in someone´s body. Primitives shoot, somebody, nose, glue 反射(はんしゃ): reflection, reverberation 放射(ほうしゃ): radiation, emission 放射能(ほうしゃのう): radioactivity 射す(さす): to shine, to strike 発射(はっしゃ): firing, shooting, discharge, catapult 陽射(ひざし): sunlight 注射(ちゅうしゃ): inject Kunyomi: い.る、さ.す Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 射る (い.る)"	"shoot 射 画数10 1338 Details Story Dictionary 射 shoot Heisig's ""I shot an arrow into the air, And it landed I know not where"" goes the poem. (The poor poet obviously loses a lot of arrows.) This kanji, however, tells us where it did land. Its elements: somebody . . . glued to. Koohii #1 You SHOOT SOMEBODY with a GLUE-gun. Koohii #2 The aim of shooting is to end up with a bullet stuck in someone´s body. Primitives shoot, somebody, nose, glue 反射(はんしゃ): reflection, reverberation 放射(ほうしゃ): radiation, emission 放射能(ほうしゃのう): radioactivity 射す(さす): to shine, to strike 発射(はっしゃ): firing, shooting, discharge, catapult 陽射(ひざし): sunlight 注射(ちゅうしゃ): inject Kunyomi: い.る、さ.す Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 射る (い.る)"
"apologize Details Story Dictionary 謝 apologize Heisig's Words . . . shoot. Koohii #1 Dick Cheney... Koohii #2 The famous speech by the man that Dick Cheney shot in the face: ""I´m sorry for the trouble I have caused the Vice President"". Primitives apologize, say, words, keitai, mouth, shoot bang bang, somebody, nose, glue 月謝(げっしゃ): monthly tuition fee 謝絶(しゃぜつ): refusal 感謝(かんしゃ): thanks, gratitude 謝る(あやまる): apologize Kunyomi: あやま.る Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 謝る (あやま.る)"	"apologize 謝 画数17 1339 Details Story Dictionary 謝 apologize Heisig's Words . . . shoot. Koohii #1 Dick Cheney... Koohii #2 The famous speech by the man that Dick Cheney shot in the face: ""I´m sorry for the trouble I have caused the Vice President"". Primitives apologize, say, words, keitai, mouth, shoot bang bang, somebody, nose, glue 月謝(げっしゃ): monthly tuition fee 謝絶(しゃぜつ): refusal 感謝(かんしゃ): thanks, gratitude 謝る(あやまる): apologize Kunyomi: あやま.る Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 謝る (あやま.る)"
"old man Details Story Dictionary 老 old man Heisig's First, do not confuse this character with venerable old man (Frame 849), which is far more rarely used. The character for an old man begins with an abbreviation of the character for somebody, the nose having been shortened into a simple crisscross of lines. But there is another, simpler way to remember it all: the soil drawn first indicates that one has come close to the age when ""dust to dust"" begins to take on a personal meaning; the diagonal walking stick for getting around; and the spoon for being spoon-fed. * As a primitive, the meaning is the same, but the final two strokes are omitted so that they can be replaced with other elements. Koohii #1 An old man, wondering what it´s like in a grave, sits in a freshly dug plot. When a gravekeeper mistakes him for dead and begins burying him with soil, the old man saves himself by flailing his walking stick in the air. Koohii #2 Old man sits in the dirt, having a stroke. Primitives old man, old man, soil, dirt, ground, spoon, sitting on the ground 老いる(おいる): to age, to grow old 老ける(ふける): to age 老衰(ろうすい): senility, senile decay 老人(ろうじん): the aged, old person Kunyomi: お.いる、ふ.ける Onyomi: ロウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 老いる (お.いる), 老ける (ふ.ける)"	"old man 老 画数6 1340 Details Story Dictionary 老 old man Heisig's First, do not confuse this character with venerable old man (Frame 849), which is far more rarely used. The character for an old man begins with an abbreviation of the character for somebody, the nose having been shortened into a simple crisscross of lines. But there is another, simpler way to remember it all: the soil drawn first indicates that one has come close to the age when ""dust to dust"" begins to take on a personal meaning; the diagonal walking stick for getting around; and the spoon for being spoon-fed. * As a primitive, the meaning is the same, but the final two strokes are omitted so that they can be replaced with other elements. Koohii #1 An old man, wondering what it´s like in a grave, sits in a freshly dug plot. When a gravekeeper mistakes him for dead and begins burying him with soil, the old man saves himself by flailing his walking stick in the air. Koohii #2 Old man sits in the dirt, having a stroke. Primitives old man, old man, soil, dirt, ground, spoon, sitting on the ground 老いる(おいる): to age, to grow old 老ける(ふける): to age 老衰(ろうすい): senility, senile decay 老人(ろうじん): the aged, old person Kunyomi: お.いる、ふ.ける Onyomi: ロウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 老いる (お.いる), 老ける (ふ.ける)"
consider Details Story Dictionary 考 consider Heisig's Old man . . . slingshot. Remember: you already have kanji for discriminating (Frame 521), deliberation (Frame 692), and think (Frame 651). Koohii #1 Before shooting an old man with a slingshot, one shold carefully consider the possible consequences. Koohii #2 Even though he had the old man Mr. Wilson within the sights of his slingshot, Dennis the Menace considered what he was doing and stopped. Primitives consider, old man, slingshot, catapult 考古学(こうこがく): archaeology 思考(しこう): thought 選考(せんこう): selection, screening 考え(かんがえ): thinking, thought, ideas, intention 考慮(こうりょ): consideration, taking into account 参考(さんこう): reference, consultation 考える(かんがえる): think Kunyomi: かんが.える、かんが.え Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 考える (かんが.える)	consider 考 画数6 1341 Details Story Dictionary 考 consider Heisig's Old man . . . slingshot. Remember: you already have kanji for discriminating (Frame 521), deliberation (Frame 692), and think (Frame 651). Koohii #1 Before shooting an old man with a slingshot, one shold carefully consider the possible consequences. Koohii #2 Even though he had the old man Mr. Wilson within the sights of his slingshot, Dennis the Menace considered what he was doing and stopped. Primitives consider, old man, slingshot, catapult 考古学(こうこがく): archaeology 思考(しこう): thought 選考(せんこう): selection, screening 考え(かんがえ): thinking, thought, ideas, intention 考慮(こうりょ): consideration, taking into account 参考(さんこう): reference, consultation 考える(かんがえる): think Kunyomi: かんが.える、かんが.え Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 考える (かんが.える)
filial piety Details Story Dictionary 孝 filial piety Heisig's Old man . . . child. Koohii #1 This child has taken filial piety to the next level. He is actually carrying the old man on his shoulders. Koohii #2 +dilandau23: This child has taken filial piety to the next level. He is actually carrying the old man on his shoulders. There is a picture of a statue depicting this here http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filial_piety. Primitives filial piety, old man, child 孝行(こうこう): filial piety Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ、キョウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: Compounds:	filial piety 孝 画数7 1342 Details Story Dictionary 孝 filial piety Heisig's Old man . . . child. Koohii #1 This child has taken filial piety to the next level. He is actually carrying the old man on his shoulders. Koohii #2 +dilandau23: This child has taken filial piety to the next level. He is actually carrying the old man on his shoulders. There is a picture of a statue depicting this here http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filial_piety. Primitives filial piety, old man, child 孝行(こうこう): filial piety Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ、キョウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: Compounds:
"teach Details Story Dictionary 教 teach Heisig's Filial piety . . . taskmaster. Koohii #1 In early Japan, filial piety was the cornerstone of education, and harsh taskmasters were employed to teach it. Koohii #2 You could say that the taskmistress is teaching you filial piety when she whips you and asks, ""Who´s your daddy?!"". Primitives teach, filial piety, old man, child, taskmaster 教え(おしえ): teachings, precept, lesson, doctrine 教員(きょういん): teaching staff 教科(きょうか): subject, curriculum 教訓(きょうくん): lesson, precept, moral instruction 教材(きょうざい): teaching materials 教習(きょうしゅう): training, instruction 教職(きょうしょく): teaching certificate, the teaching profession 宣教(せんきょう): religious mission 教わる(おそわる): be taught 教科書(きょうかしょ): text book 教師(きょうし): classroom teacher 教授(きょうじゅ): teaching, instruction, professor 教養(きょうよう): culture, education, refinement, cultivation 宗教(しゅうきょう): religion 助教授(じょきょうじゅ): assistant professor 教育(きょういく): education 教会(きょうかい): church 教える(おしえる): teach, inform, instruct 教室(きょうしつ): classroom Kunyomi: おし.える、おそ.わる Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 教える (おし.える), 教わる (おそ.わる)"	"teach 教 画数11 1343 Details Story Dictionary 教 teach Heisig's Filial piety . . . taskmaster. Koohii #1 In early Japan, filial piety was the cornerstone of education, and harsh taskmasters were employed to teach it. Koohii #2 You could say that the taskmistress is teaching you filial piety when she whips you and asks, ""Who´s your daddy?!"". Primitives teach, filial piety, old man, child, taskmaster 教え(おしえ): teachings, precept, lesson, doctrine 教員(きょういん): teaching staff 教科(きょうか): subject, curriculum 教訓(きょうくん): lesson, precept, moral instruction 教材(きょうざい): teaching materials 教習(きょうしゅう): training, instruction 教職(きょうしょく): teaching certificate, the teaching profession 宣教(せんきょう): religious mission 教わる(おそわる): be taught 教科書(きょうかしょ): text book 教師(きょうし): classroom teacher 教授(きょうじゅ): teaching, instruction, professor 教養(きょうよう): culture, education, refinement, cultivation 宗教(しゅうきょう): religion 助教授(じょきょうじゅ): assistant professor 教育(きょういく): education 教会(きょうかい): church 教える(おしえる): teach, inform, instruct 教室(きょうしつ): classroom Kunyomi: おし.える、おそ.わる Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 教える (おし.える), 教わる (おそ.わる)"
"torture Details Story Dictionary 拷 torture Heisig's Fingers . . . consider. Koohii #1 In Torture 101 class they teach you to Consider the Fingers as the first part to inflict pain to. Then you can move on to other parts (like feet, groin, head, etc. etc. ; ) ). Koohii #2 Aaaargh, stop! cries the victim of torture, his fingers being squeezed by the thumb screws. ""I´ll consider it,"" the torturer says coolly, ""if you tell me the names of all the agents in your organization."". Primitives torture, finger, fingers, consider, old man, slingshot, catapult Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゴウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"torture 拷 画数9 1344 Details Story Dictionary 拷 torture Heisig's Fingers . . . consider. Koohii #1 In Torture 101 class they teach you to Consider the Fingers as the first part to inflict pain to. Then you can move on to other parts (like feet, groin, head, etc. etc. ; ) ). Koohii #2 Aaaargh, stop! cries the victim of torture, his fingers being squeezed by the thumb screws. ""I´ll consider it,"" the torturer says coolly, ""if you tell me the names of all the agents in your organization."". Primitives torture, finger, fingers, consider, old man, slingshot, catapult Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゴウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"someone Details Story Dictionary 者 someone Heisig's Old man . . . sun. This key word looks to be difficult because of its proximity to somebody. In fact, it is a very common kanji that will cause you no difficulty at all. Its meaning should be seen as the human referent for the abstract noun ""something."" * As a primitive it means a puppet-on-a-string. Koohii #1 I find the best way of memorizing this kanji is in conjunction with the Japanese compound for ninja: 忍者 -- i.e. someone who endures (see FRAME 597 for the kanji 忍). A 忍者 is not just a 身 (somebody), it´s 者 who can 忍 great 拷! Koohii #2 Back in the day, the old man used to be someone. His name was in the papers and all that. I use CHUCKY from the movie Child´s Play as my major alternate meaning for this primitive. Primitives someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day 業者(ぎょうしゃ): trader, merchant 信者(しんじゃ): believer, adherent, devotee, Christian 達者(たっしゃ): skillful, in good health 読者(どくしゃ): reader 配偶者(はいぐうしゃ): spouse, wife, husband 悪者(わるもの): bad fellow, rascal, ruffian, scoundrel 学者(がくしゃ): scholar 患者(かんじゃ): a patient 記者(きしゃ): reporter 後者(こうしゃ): the latter 作者(さくしゃ): author 前者(ぜんしゃ): the former 著者(ちょしゃ): author, writer 筆者(ひっしゃ): writer, author 者(もの): person 役者(やくしゃ): actor, actress 歯医者(はいしゃ): dentist 医者(いしゃ): doctor (medical) Kunyomi: もの Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 者 (もの)"	"someone 者 画数8 1345 Details Story Dictionary 者 someone Heisig's Old man . . . sun. This key word looks to be difficult because of its proximity to somebody. In fact, it is a very common kanji that will cause you no difficulty at all. Its meaning should be seen as the human referent for the abstract noun ""something."" * As a primitive it means a puppet-on-a-string. Koohii #1 I find the best way of memorizing this kanji is in conjunction with the Japanese compound for ninja: 忍者 -- i.e. someone who endures (see FRAME 597 for the kanji 忍). A 忍者 is not just a 身 (somebody), it´s 者 who can 忍 great 拷! Koohii #2 Back in the day, the old man used to be someone. His name was in the papers and all that. I use CHUCKY from the movie Child´s Play as my major alternate meaning for this primitive. Primitives someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day 業者(ぎょうしゃ): trader, merchant 信者(しんじゃ): believer, adherent, devotee, Christian 達者(たっしゃ): skillful, in good health 読者(どくしゃ): reader 配偶者(はいぐうしゃ): spouse, wife, husband 悪者(わるもの): bad fellow, rascal, ruffian, scoundrel 学者(がくしゃ): scholar 患者(かんじゃ): a patient 記者(きしゃ): reporter 後者(こうしゃ): the latter 作者(さくしゃ): author 前者(ぜんしゃ): the former 著者(ちょしゃ): author, writer 筆者(ひっしゃ): writer, author 者(もの): person 役者(やくしゃ): actor, actress 歯医者(はいしゃ): dentist 医者(いしゃ): doctor (medical) Kunyomi: もの Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 者 (もの)"
"boil Details Story Dictionary 煮 boil Heisig's Puppet . . . oven fire. Koohii #1 I had a hard time with the next several frame numbers trying to use ""puppet."" So i thought of ""voodoo doll"" but then found ""love doll"" (which is just a special type of puppet) fit well with these 8 frames. Observe: Here I am boiling my love doll over the flames to warm her up a bit... Koohii #2 There is a lesser known voodoo practice of boiling a puppet over an oven fire, to really make your victim feel the heat! Primitives boil, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day, oven-fire, barbecue 煮える(にえる): boil, cook, be cooked 煮る(にる): boil, cook Kunyomi: に.る、-に、に.える、に.やす Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 煮える (に.える), 煮やす (に.やす), 煮る (に.る)"	"boil 煮 画数12 1346 Details Story Dictionary 煮 boil Heisig's Puppet . . . oven fire. Koohii #1 I had a hard time with the next several frame numbers trying to use ""puppet."" So i thought of ""voodoo doll"" but then found ""love doll"" (which is just a special type of puppet) fit well with these 8 frames. Observe: Here I am boiling my love doll over the flames to warm her up a bit... Koohii #2 There is a lesser known voodoo practice of boiling a puppet over an oven fire, to really make your victim feel the heat! Primitives boil, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day, oven-fire, barbecue 煮える(にえる): boil, cook, be cooked 煮る(にる): boil, cook Kunyomi: に.る、-に、に.える、に.やす Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 煮える (に.える), 煮やす (に.やす), 煮る (に.る)"
renowned Details Story Dictionary 著 renowned Heisig's Flowers . . . puppet. Koohii #1 Here I am, putting a wreath of flowers on my love doll´s head and pretending she is someone of great renowned. Koohii #2 This someone is so renowned they are covered with flowers every time they perform on stage. Primitives renowned, flowers, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day 著しい(いちじるしい): remarkable, considerable 著書(ちょしょ): literary work, book 著名(ちょめい): well-known, noted, celebrated 著す(あらわす): write, publish 著者(ちょしゃ): author, writer Kunyomi: あらわ.す、いちじる.しい Onyomi: チョ、チャク Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 著す (あらわ.す), 著しい (いちじる.しい)	renowned 著 画数11 1347 Details Story Dictionary 著 renowned Heisig's Flowers . . . puppet. Koohii #1 Here I am, putting a wreath of flowers on my love doll´s head and pretending she is someone of great renowned. Koohii #2 This someone is so renowned they are covered with flowers every time they perform on stage. Primitives renowned, flowers, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day 著しい(いちじるしい): remarkable, considerable 著書(ちょしょ): literary work, book 著名(ちょめい): well-known, noted, celebrated 著す(あらわす): write, publish 著者(ちょしゃ): author, writer Kunyomi: あらわ.す、いちじる.しい Onyomi: チョ、チャク Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 著す (あらわ.す), 著しい (いちじる.しい)
chopsticks Details Story Dictionary 箸 chopsticks Heisig's Bamboo . . . puppet. Koohii #1 Bamboo, lovedoll: At dinner, my lovedoll decided to eat her meal the Japanese way using chopsticks. But well, what a problems she had getting those bamboo shoots into her mouth (which should not be that difficult, I would say!). Koohii #2 I´ve always wanted to use bamboo chopsticks to eat sushi off a naked woman. Unfortunately, there is no woman in my life, so this love doll will have to do. Primitives chopsticks, bamboo, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day 箸(はし): chopsticks Kunyomi: はし Onyomi: チョ、チャク Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 箸 (はし)	chopsticks 箸 画数14 1348 Details Story Dictionary 箸 chopsticks Heisig's Bamboo . . . puppet. Koohii #1 Bamboo, lovedoll: At dinner, my lovedoll decided to eat her meal the Japanese way using chopsticks. But well, what a problems she had getting those bamboo shoots into her mouth (which should not be that difficult, I would say!). Koohii #2 I´ve always wanted to use bamboo chopsticks to eat sushi off a naked woman. Unfortunately, there is no woman in my life, so this love doll will have to do. Primitives chopsticks, bamboo, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day 箸(はし): chopsticks Kunyomi: はし Onyomi: チョ、チャク Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 箸 (はし)
signature Details Story Dictionary 署 signature Heisig's Eye . . . puppet. Koohii #1 Before giving your SIGNATURE to accept the LOVEDOLL, you should EYE over the LOVEDOLL for any damages, then give your SIGNATURE. Koohii #2 The ninja´s signature move was to paralyse people just by looking in their eyes. Primitives signature, eye, cross-eyed, net, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day 税務署(ぜいむしょ): tax office 消防署(しょうぼうしょ): fire station 署名(しょめい): signature Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	signature 署 画数13 1349 Details Story Dictionary 署 signature Heisig's Eye . . . puppet. Koohii #1 Before giving your SIGNATURE to accept the LOVEDOLL, you should EYE over the LOVEDOLL for any damages, then give your SIGNATURE. Koohii #2 The ninja´s signature move was to paralyse people just by looking in their eyes. Primitives signature, eye, cross-eyed, net, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day 税務署(ぜいむしょ): tax office 消防署(しょうぼうしょ): fire station 署名(しょめい): signature Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
"sultry Details Story Dictionary 暑 sultry Heisig's The key word refers to the heat of summer. Its elements: sun . . . puppet. Koohii #1 Ahh, a fine sultry day with my love doll under the hot sun. I think she´s getting a tan! Koohii #2 [from decamer0n] This is the kanji for atsui (暑い) as in hot. If you´ve ever been in Japan in the summer no doubt you have heard hoards of people bellowing ""Atsui! Atsui!"" Here you are laying with your love doll under the hot sun. Luckily the manufacturers were smart and when the doll got to hot it would bellow ""Atsui! It´s so sultry!"". Primitives sultry, sun, day, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun2, day2 蒸し暑い(むしあつい): humid, sultry 暑い(あつい): hot, warm Kunyomi: あつ.い Onyomi: ショ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 暑い (あつ.い)"	"sultry 暑 画数12 1350 Details Story Dictionary 暑 sultry Heisig's The key word refers to the heat of summer. Its elements: sun . . . puppet. Koohii #1 Ahh, a fine sultry day with my love doll under the hot sun. I think she´s getting a tan! Koohii #2 [from decamer0n] This is the kanji for atsui (暑い) as in hot. If you´ve ever been in Japan in the summer no doubt you have heard hoards of people bellowing ""Atsui! Atsui!"" Here you are laying with your love doll under the hot sun. Luckily the manufacturers were smart and when the doll got to hot it would bellow ""Atsui! It´s so sultry!"". Primitives sultry, sun, day, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun2, day2 蒸し暑い(むしあつい): humid, sultry 暑い(あつい): hot, warm Kunyomi: あつ.い Onyomi: ショ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 暑い (あつ.い)"
"various Details Story Dictionary 諸 various My Story [Speak + someone/ninja {者}] Go *speak* to *someone/ninja* about doing the various odd jobs here. Koohii #1 Because i get tired of saying the same old thing, I have lately been trying to use various terms of endearment to my love doll. I think she appreciates it too. Koohii #2 When you pull the string at the back of Chucky, he will say various things. ""Hidey-ho! Ha ha ha!"" ""Hi, I´m Chucky. Wanna play?"" ""I´m going to eat your liver, bitch!"". Primitives various, say, words, keitai, mouth, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day 諸(しょ): various, many, several 諸君(しょくん): Gentlemen!, Ladies! Kunyomi: もろ Onyomi: ショ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"various 諸 画数15 1351 Details Story Dictionary 諸 various My Story [Speak + someone/ninja {者}] Go *speak* to *someone/ninja* about doing the various odd jobs here. Koohii #1 Because i get tired of saying the same old thing, I have lately been trying to use various terms of endearment to my love doll. I think she appreciates it too. Koohii #2 When you pull the string at the back of Chucky, he will say various things. ""Hidey-ho! Ha ha ha!"" ""Hi, I´m Chucky. Wanna play?"" ""I´m going to eat your liver, bitch!"". Primitives various, say, words, keitai, mouth, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day 諸(しょ): various, many, several 諸君(しょくん): Gentlemen!, Ladies! Kunyomi: もろ Onyomi: ショ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
boar Details Story Dictionary 猪 boar Heisig's Pack of wild dogs . . . puppet. Koohii #1 My love doll is made of special pheremone impregnated vinyl. Unfortunately, a pack of wild dogs mistook her for a wild boar and tore her to pieces. Oh dear! Koohii #2 (Image: a pack of wild dogs chasing Pinocchio who´s trying to escape by riding on the back of a boar. See him bouncing around as they race along?). Primitives boar, pack of wild dogs, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day Kunyomi: い、いのしし Onyomi: チョ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	boar 猪 画数11 1352 Details Story Dictionary 猪 boar Heisig's Pack of wild dogs . . . puppet. Koohii #1 My love doll is made of special pheremone impregnated vinyl. Unfortunately, a pack of wild dogs mistook her for a wild boar and tore her to pieces. Oh dear! Koohii #2 (Image: a pack of wild dogs chasing Pinocchio who´s trying to escape by riding on the back of a boar. See him bouncing around as they race along?). Primitives boar, pack of wild dogs, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day Kunyomi: い、いのしし Onyomi: チョ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
strand Details Story Dictionary 渚 strand Heisig's The strand referred to here is the stretch of land along a beach or shoreline. Its elements are: water . . . puppet. Koohii #1 I was stranded on a desert island surrounded by water for hundreds of miles on end. I wasn´t upset though - I had my love doll! What a great strand of sand to be stranded on - just me and my love doll! Koohii #2 A lovely romantic walk on the strand, splashing in the water with my love doll. Primitives strand, water, water droplets, water pistol, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day Kunyomi: なぎさ Onyomi: ショ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	strand 渚 画数11 1353 Details Story Dictionary 渚 strand Heisig's The strand referred to here is the stretch of land along a beach or shoreline. Its elements are: water . . . puppet. Koohii #1 I was stranded on a desert island surrounded by water for hundreds of miles on end. I wasn´t upset though - I had my love doll! What a great strand of sand to be stranded on - just me and my love doll! Koohii #2 A lovely romantic walk on the strand, splashing in the water with my love doll. Primitives strand, water, water droplets, water pistol, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day Kunyomi: なぎさ Onyomi: ショ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
gamble Details Story Dictionary 賭 gamble Heisig's Shells/money . . . puppet. Koohii #1 When we gamble at the shell game, I always win against my love doll. Koohii #2 People who gamble compulsively are like puppets controlled by money. Primitives gamble, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day 賭け(かけ): betting, gambling, a gamble 賭ける(かける): to wager, to bet, to risk, to stake, to gamble Kunyomi: か.ける、かけ Onyomi: ト Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 賭ける (か.ける)	gamble 賭 画数15 1354 Details Story Dictionary 賭 gamble Heisig's Shells/money . . . puppet. Koohii #1 When we gamble at the shell game, I always win against my love doll. Koohii #2 People who gamble compulsively are like puppets controlled by money. Primitives gamble, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day 賭け(かけ): betting, gambling, a gamble 賭ける(かける): to wager, to bet, to risk, to stake, to gamble Kunyomi: か.ける、かけ Onyomi: ト Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 賭ける (か.ける)
gorge Details Story Dictionary 峡 gorge Heisig's Mountain . . . scissors. Koohii #1 A gorge is where God has cut into a mountain with a pair of scissors. (synewave,6-10-2006) http://www.travelblog.org/Photos/197361.html. Koohii #2 A kid cuts a gorge into a paper mountain, with a pair of scissors. Primitives gorge, mountain, scissors, husband, horns 海峡(かいきょう): channel Kunyomi: はざま Onyomi: キョウ、コウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	gorge 峡 画数9 1355 Details Story Dictionary 峡 gorge Heisig's Mountain . . . scissors. Koohii #1 A gorge is where God has cut into a mountain with a pair of scissors. (synewave,6-10-2006) http://www.travelblog.org/Photos/197361.html. Koohii #2 A kid cuts a gorge into a paper mountain, with a pair of scissors. Primitives gorge, mountain, scissors, husband, horns 海峡(かいきょう): channel Kunyomi: はざま Onyomi: キョウ、コウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
cramped Details Story Dictionary 狭 cramped Heisig's Pack of wild dogs . . . scissors. Koohii #1 A pack of wild dogs, waiting in a very cramped waiting room, to get their hair cut by Edward Scissors Hands, who is very popular. Koohii #2 In a CRAMPED space, a brave man holds off PACK OF WILD DOGS with only a pair of SCISSORS. Primitives cramped, pack of wild dogs, scissors, husband, horns 狭い(せまい): narrow, confined, small Kunyomi: せま.い、せば.める、せば.まる、さ Onyomi: キョウ、コウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 狭まる (せば.まる), 狭める (せば.める), 狭い (せま.い)	cramped 狭 画数9 1356 Details Story Dictionary 狭 cramped Heisig's Pack of wild dogs . . . scissors. Koohii #1 A pack of wild dogs, waiting in a very cramped waiting room, to get their hair cut by Edward Scissors Hands, who is very popular. Koohii #2 In a CRAMPED space, a brave man holds off PACK OF WILD DOGS with only a pair of SCISSORS. Primitives cramped, pack of wild dogs, scissors, husband, horns 狭い(せまい): narrow, confined, small Kunyomi: せま.い、せば.める、せば.まる、さ Onyomi: キョウ、コウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 狭まる (せば.まる), 狭める (せば.める), 狭い (せま.い)
sandwiched Details Story Dictionary 挟 sandwiched Heisig's Fingers . . . scissors. Do not confuse with the kanji for pinch (Frame 709). Koohii #1 挟まる 【はさまる】 (v5r,vi) to get between; to be caught in; (P) Story: You know how in tokyo there are those really packed trains where train staff in gloves shove people in? Well imagine being sandwiched in so tight, that when the doors close, only your FINGERS are sticking out. The train staff have no choice... they must cut them off with SCISSORS =( snip snip.. Koohii #2 Fingers sandwiched between a pair of scissors. Don´t move or else! Primitives sandwiched, finger, fingers, scissors, husband, horns 挟まる(はさまる): get between, be caught in 挟む(はさむ): interpose, hold between, insert Kunyomi: はさ.む、はさ.まる、わきばさ.む、さしはさ.む Onyomi: キョウ、ショウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 挟まる (はさ.まる), 挟む (はさ.む)	sandwiched 挟 画数9 1357 Details Story Dictionary 挟 sandwiched Heisig's Fingers . . . scissors. Do not confuse with the kanji for pinch (Frame 709). Koohii #1 挟まる 【はさまる】 (v5r,vi) to get between; to be caught in; (P) Story: You know how in tokyo there are those really packed trains where train staff in gloves shove people in? Well imagine being sandwiched in so tight, that when the doors close, only your FINGERS are sticking out. The train staff have no choice... they must cut them off with SCISSORS =( snip snip.. Koohii #2 Fingers sandwiched between a pair of scissors. Don´t move or else! Primitives sandwiched, finger, fingers, scissors, husband, horns 挟まる(はさまる): get between, be caught in 挟む(はさむ): interpose, hold between, insert Kunyomi: はさ.む、はさ.まる、わきばさ.む、さしはさ.む Onyomi: キョウ、ショウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 挟まる (はさ.まる), 挟む (はさ.む)
"cheek Details Story Dictionary 頬 頰 cheek Heisig's Scissors . . . head. Koohii #1 Your cheeks contain your jawbones, which are known as the ""scissors of the head."". Koohii #2 The Joker from Batman had his cheeks cut with scissors to give him that eternal smile. Now the Joker isn´t right in the head. Primitives cheek, scissors, husband, horns, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 頬(ほお): cheek (of face) 頬っぺた(ほっぺた): cheek Kunyomi: ほお、ほほ Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 頬 (ほお)"	"cheek 頬 頰 画数15 1358 Details Story Dictionary 頬 頰 cheek Heisig's Scissors . . . head. Koohii #1 Your cheeks contain your jawbones, which are known as the ""scissors of the head."". Koohii #2 The Joker from Batman had his cheeks cut with scissors to give him that eternal smile. Now the Joker isn´t right in the head. Primitives cheek, scissors, husband, horns, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 頬(ほお): cheek (of face) 頬っぺた(ほっぺた): cheek Kunyomi: ほお、ほほ Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 頬 (ほお)"
chase Details Story Dictionary 追 chase Heisig's Maestro . . . road. Koohii #1 Maestro, coattails flapping wildly, is being chased down the road by his fans. Koohii #2 Maestro primative = James Bond. Here he gives chase down the road to the bad guys. I´m thinking of the car chase in ´The Man with the Golden Gun´ - NOT pursue (#539). I think about ´Race N Chase´ (a scalextric type toy)...there were no pigs in ´Race N Chase´, only cars. Primitives chase, maestro, road 追い込む(おいこむ): to herd, to corner, to drive 追い出す(おいだす): to expel, to drive out 追及(ついきゅう): gaining on, carrying out, solving (crime) 追跡(ついせき): pursuit 追放(ついほう): exile, banishment 追い掛ける(おいかける): pursue, chase 追い越す(おいこす): to pass (e.g. car), outdistance 追い付く(おいつく): overtake, catch up (with) 追う(おう): chase 追加(ついか): addition, supplement, appendix Kunyomi: お.う Onyomi: ツイ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 追う (お.う)	chase 追 画数9 1359 Details Story Dictionary 追 chase Heisig's Maestro . . . road. Koohii #1 Maestro, coattails flapping wildly, is being chased down the road by his fans. Koohii #2 Maestro primative = James Bond. Here he gives chase down the road to the bad guys. I´m thinking of the car chase in ´The Man with the Golden Gun´ - NOT pursue (#539). I think about ´Race N Chase´ (a scalextric type toy)...there were no pigs in ´Race N Chase´, only cars. Primitives chase, maestro, road 追い込む(おいこむ): to herd, to corner, to drive 追い出す(おいだす): to expel, to drive out 追及(ついきゅう): gaining on, carrying out, solving (crime) 追跡(ついせき): pursuit 追放(ついほう): exile, banishment 追い掛ける(おいかける): pursue, chase 追い越す(おいこす): to pass (e.g. car), outdistance 追い付く(おいつく): overtake, catch up (with) 追う(おう): chase 追加(ついか): addition, supplement, appendix Kunyomi: お.う Onyomi: ツイ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 追う (お.う)
large hill Details Story Dictionary 阜 large hill Heisig's Maestro . . . needle. Koohii #1 The maestro lives on top of a large hill so that he can play music at over ten decibels without anyone giving a damn. Koohii #2 Note to those who have not got this far in the book: This is the full kanji for the Pinnacle primitive (i.e. only the left-hand version of the primitive). The full kanji for the City Walls primitive is city walls (#2180). Beyonce went for an invigorating walk up a large hill on a summer´s afternoon. Since the grass was so lush and cool, she took off her sandals and immediately stepped on a used hypodermic needle. 岐阜県　ぎふけん Gifu Prefecture. Primitives large hill, maestro, ten, needle Kunyomi: Onyomi: フ、フウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	large hill 阜 画数8 1360 Details Story Dictionary 阜 large hill Heisig's Maestro . . . needle. Koohii #1 The maestro lives on top of a large hill so that he can play music at over ten decibels without anyone giving a damn. Koohii #2 Note to those who have not got this far in the book: This is the full kanji for the Pinnacle primitive (i.e. only the left-hand version of the primitive). The full kanji for the City Walls primitive is city walls (#2180). Beyonce went for an invigorating walk up a large hill on a summer´s afternoon. Since the grass was so lush and cool, she took off her sandals and immediately stepped on a used hypodermic needle. 岐阜県　ぎふけん Gifu Prefecture. Primitives large hill, maestro, ten, needle Kunyomi: Onyomi: フ、フウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
expert Details Story Dictionary 師 expert Heisig's Maestro . . . ceiling . . . towel. Koohii #1 A maestro in a large auditorium with high ceilings is conducting his orchestra of expert musicians at a fever-pitch, sweat pouring out of him. When the piece is over he reaches for his towel to wipe his brow. Koohii #2 Maestro is such as expert, he can conduct even with a towel hanging from the ceiling in front of him. Primitives expert, maestro, noren, one, ceiling, towel 牧師(ぼくし): pastor, minister, clergyman 医師(いし): doctor 技師(ぎし): engineer, technician 教師(きょうし): classroom teacher 講師(こうし): lecturer 漁師(りょうし): fisherman Kunyomi: もろもろ、なら.う Onyomi: シ、ス Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	expert 師 画数10 1361 Details Story Dictionary 師 expert Heisig's Maestro . . . ceiling . . . towel. Koohii #1 A maestro in a large auditorium with high ceilings is conducting his orchestra of expert musicians at a fever-pitch, sweat pouring out of him. When the piece is over he reaches for his towel to wipe his brow. Koohii #2 Maestro is such as expert, he can conduct even with a towel hanging from the ceiling in front of him. Primitives expert, maestro, noren, one, ceiling, towel 牧師(ぼくし): pastor, minister, clergyman 医師(いし): doctor 技師(ぎし): engineer, technician 教師(きょうし): classroom teacher 講師(こうし): lecturer 漁師(りょうし): fisherman Kunyomi: もろもろ、なら.う Onyomi: シ、ス Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
commander Details Story Dictionary 帥 commander Heisig's Maestro . . . towel. Koohii #1 The COMMANDER is a military MAESTRO who never throws in the TOWEL. Koohii #2 The greatest of them all; Commander James Bond, 007. Here he is the maestro of undressing women, removing the towel from some bond girl. Of course the towel symbolises her last vestige of resistance. Primitives commander, maestro, towel Kunyomi: Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	commander 帥 画数9 1362 Details Story Dictionary 帥 commander Heisig's Maestro . . . towel. Koohii #1 The COMMANDER is a military MAESTRO who never throws in the TOWEL. Koohii #2 The greatest of them all; Commander James Bond, 007. Here he is the maestro of undressing women, removing the towel from some bond girl. Of course the towel symbolises her last vestige of resistance. Primitives commander, maestro, towel Kunyomi: Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
bureaucrat Details Story Dictionary 官 bureaucrat Heisig's By replacing the maestro's baton (the drop) with the roof of a house, we have his equivalent in the institutional world of big government: the bureaucrat. Koohii #1 No one likes classical music anymore. Our Maestro is here at home without his baton sighing sadly before he heads off for another day as his new job as a bureaucrat. Koohii #2 Bureaucrat, def: The maestro without a baton, the one who orchestrates oppressive rules, regulations and taxes on every household. Primitives bureaucrat, house, maestro without baton 官僚(かんりょう): bureaucrat, bureaucracy 器官(きかん): organ (of body), instrument 長官(ちょうかん): chief, (government) secretary 官庁(かんちょう): government office, authorities 警官(けいかん): policeman Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	bureaucrat 官 画数8 1363 Details Story Dictionary 官 bureaucrat Heisig's By replacing the maestro's baton (the drop) with the roof of a house, we have his equivalent in the institutional world of big government: the bureaucrat. Koohii #1 No one likes classical music anymore. Our Maestro is here at home without his baton sighing sadly before he heads off for another day as his new job as a bureaucrat. Koohii #2 Bureaucrat, def: The maestro without a baton, the one who orchestrates oppressive rules, regulations and taxes on every household. Primitives bureaucrat, house, maestro without baton 官僚(かんりょう): bureaucrat, bureaucracy 器官(きかん): organ (of body), instrument 長官(ちょうかん): chief, (government) secretary 官庁(かんちょう): government office, authorities 警官(けいかん): policeman Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
coffin Details Story Dictionary 棺 coffin Heisig's Wood . . . bureaucrat. Koohii #1 The maestro at home was sick of being a bureaucrat, so he got some wood and built himself a coffin and got in. Koohii #2 An excellent use of wood is to make coffins for bureaucrats. Primitives coffin, tree, wood, bureaucrat, house, maestro without baton Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	coffin 棺 画数12 1364 Details Story Dictionary 棺 coffin Heisig's Wood . . . bureaucrat. Koohii #1 The maestro at home was sick of being a bureaucrat, so he got some wood and built himself a coffin and got in. Koohii #2 An excellent use of wood is to make coffins for bureaucrats. Primitives coffin, tree, wood, bureaucrat, house, maestro without baton Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
pipe Details Story Dictionary 管 pipe Heisig's Bamboo . . . bureaucrat. Koohii #1 Japanese bureaucrats send all their messages through an inter-office bamboo pipe system. Koohii #2 The Japanese internet is a series of bamboo pipes said one ignorant bureaucrat trying to draft Internet legislation. Primitives pipe, bamboo, bureaucrat, house, maestro without baton 管(かん): pipe, tube 血管(けっかん): blood vessel 保管(ほかん): charge, custody, safekeeping, deposit, storage 管理(かんり): control, management (e.g. of a business) 管(くだ): pipe, tube Kunyomi: くだ Onyomi: カン Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 管 (くだ)	pipe 管 画数14 1365 Details Story Dictionary 管 pipe Heisig's Bamboo . . . bureaucrat. Koohii #1 Japanese bureaucrats send all their messages through an inter-office bamboo pipe system. Koohii #2 The Japanese internet is a series of bamboo pipes said one ignorant bureaucrat trying to draft Internet legislation. Primitives pipe, bamboo, bureaucrat, house, maestro without baton 管(かん): pipe, tube 血管(けっかん): blood vessel 保管(ほかん): charge, custody, safekeeping, deposit, storage 管理(かんり): control, management (e.g. of a business) 管(くだ): pipe, tube Kunyomi: くだ Onyomi: カン Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 管 (くだ)
father Details Story Dictionary 父 father Heisig's The kindness and hard work of the ideal father is seen in this abbreviation of the taskmaster that leaves off his rod or whip (the first stroke) and replaces it with the sweat of the father's brow (the two drops at the top). Koohii #1 Luke, I am your father. Darth Vader (really surprised nobody put this one up before: 2 laserswords). Koohii #2 Not to confuse anyone, but I think if you put your mind to it, you can see the image of a father here. The first two strokes take on the form of his eye brows, and the third and fourth stroke make up the nose and mustache. Primitives father お祖父さん(おじいさん): grandfather, male senior-citizen 伯父さん(おじさん): middle-aged gentleman, uncle 父母(ちちはは): father and mother, parents 小父さん(おじさん): middle-aged gentleman, uncle 父親(ちちおや): father 父母(ふぼ): father and mother, parents 祖父(そふ): grand father 叔父(おじ): uncle (younger than one´s parent) お父さん(おとうさん): (polite) father Kunyomi: ちち Onyomi: フ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 父 (ちち)	father 父 画数4 1366 Details Story Dictionary 父 father Heisig's The kindness and hard work of the ideal father is seen in this abbreviation of the taskmaster that leaves off his rod or whip (the first stroke) and replaces it with the sweat of the father's brow (the two drops at the top). Koohii #1 Luke, I am your father. Darth Vader (really surprised nobody put this one up before: 2 laserswords). Koohii #2 Not to confuse anyone, but I think if you put your mind to it, you can see the image of a father here. The first two strokes take on the form of his eye brows, and the third and fourth stroke make up the nose and mustache. Primitives father お祖父さん(おじいさん): grandfather, male senior-citizen 伯父さん(おじさん): middle-aged gentleman, uncle 父母(ちちはは): father and mother, parents 小父さん(おじさん): middle-aged gentleman, uncle 父親(ちちおや): father 父母(ふぼ): father and mother, parents 祖父(そふ): grand father 叔父(おじ): uncle (younger than one´s parent) お父さん(おとうさん): (polite) father Kunyomi: ちち Onyomi: フ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 父 (ちち)
cauldron Details Story Dictionary 釜 cauldron Heisig's Father . . . metal. Note the stroke overlap between father and metal. Koohii #1 Your father uses his legs to stop himself from being put in a metal cauldron. Koohii #2 Whilst on holiday, my father was captured by cannibals and put in a metal cauldron. Primitives cauldron, father, metal, gold 釜(かま): iron pot, kettle Kunyomi: かま Onyomi: フ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 釜 (かま)	cauldron 釜 画数10 1367 Details Story Dictionary 釜 cauldron Heisig's Father . . . metal. Note the stroke overlap between father and metal. Koohii #1 Your father uses his legs to stop himself from being put in a metal cauldron. Koohii #2 Whilst on holiday, my father was captured by cannibals and put in a metal cauldron. Primitives cauldron, father, metal, gold 釜(かま): iron pot, kettle Kunyomi: かま Onyomi: フ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 釜 (かま)
mingle Details Story Dictionary 交 mingle Heisig's Top hat . . . father. Koohii #1 Even though your FATHER is an old man, he can´t give up his party lifestyle. Once a week he still dons his cool TOP HAT (well, it was cool 40 years ago) and goes out on the town to MINGLE with the ladies. This is a pretty common thing in Japan, where old motherfuckers still think they can pick up 19 year old girls. Koohii #2 Darth Vader tries to mingle with his troops. He even weares one of the helmets of the stromtroopers. (one of them laughs: white helmet, black suit. Darth Vader thereby slashes him in 2). Primitives mingle, top hat, father 交わす(かわす): to exchange (messages), to dodge, to parry, to avoid, to turn aside 交易(こうえき): trade, commerce 交互(こうご): mutual, reciprocal, alternate 交渉(こうしょう): negotiations, discussions, connection 交付(こうふ): delivering, furnishing (with copies) 国交(こっこう): diplomatic relations 社交(しゃこう): social life, social intercourse 交ざる(まざる): to be mixed, to be blended with, to associate with, to mingle with, to join 交える(まじえる): to mix, to converse with, to cross (swords) 交じる(まじる): to be mixed, to be blended with, to associate with, to mingle with, to interest, to join 交わる(まじわる): to cross, to intersect, to associate with, to mingle with, to interest, to join 外交(がいこう): diplomacy 交換(こうかん): exchange, interchange, reciprocity, barter, substitution 交差(こうさ): cross 交際(こうさい): company, friendship, association, society, acquaintance 交差点(こうさてん): crossing, intersection 交替(こうたい): alternation, change, shift, relief, relay 交通機関(こうつうきかん): transportation facilities 交流(こうりゅう): alternating current, intercourse, (cultural) exchange, intermingling 交ぜる(まぜる): be mixed, be blended with 交通(こうつう): traffic 交番(こうばん): police box Kunyomi: まじ.わる、まじ.える、ま.じる、まじ.る、ま.ざる、ま.ぜる、-か.う、か.わす、かわ.す、こもごも Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 交う (か.う), 交わす (か.わす), 交ざる (ま.ざる), 交じる (ま.じる), 交ぜる (ま.ぜる), 交える (まじ.える), 交わる (まじ.わる)	mingle 交 画数6 1368 Details Story Dictionary 交 mingle Heisig's Top hat . . . father. Koohii #1 Even though your FATHER is an old man, he can´t give up his party lifestyle. Once a week he still dons his cool TOP HAT (well, it was cool 40 years ago) and goes out on the town to MINGLE with the ladies. This is a pretty common thing in Japan, where old motherfuckers still think they can pick up 19 year old girls. Koohii #2 Darth Vader tries to mingle with his troops. He even weares one of the helmets of the stromtroopers. (one of them laughs: white helmet, black suit. Darth Vader thereby slashes him in 2). Primitives mingle, top hat, father 交わす(かわす): to exchange (messages), to dodge, to parry, to avoid, to turn aside 交易(こうえき): trade, commerce 交互(こうご): mutual, reciprocal, alternate 交渉(こうしょう): negotiations, discussions, connection 交付(こうふ): delivering, furnishing (with copies) 国交(こっこう): diplomatic relations 社交(しゃこう): social life, social intercourse 交ざる(まざる): to be mixed, to be blended with, to associate with, to mingle with, to join 交える(まじえる): to mix, to converse with, to cross (swords) 交じる(まじる): to be mixed, to be blended with, to associate with, to mingle with, to interest, to join 交わる(まじわる): to cross, to intersect, to associate with, to mingle with, to interest, to join 外交(がいこう): diplomacy 交換(こうかん): exchange, interchange, reciprocity, barter, substitution 交差(こうさ): cross 交際(こうさい): company, friendship, association, society, acquaintance 交差点(こうさてん): crossing, intersection 交替(こうたい): alternation, change, shift, relief, relay 交通機関(こうつうきかん): transportation facilities 交流(こうりゅう): alternating current, intercourse, (cultural) exchange, intermingling 交ぜる(まぜる): be mixed, be blended with 交通(こうつう): traffic 交番(こうばん): police box Kunyomi: まじ.わる、まじ.える、ま.じる、まじ.る、ま.ざる、ま.ぜる、-か.う、か.わす、かわ.す、こもごも Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 交う (か.う), 交わす (か.わす), 交ざる (ま.ざる), 交じる (ま.じる), 交ぜる (ま.ぜる), 交える (まじ.える), 交わる (まじ.わる)
merit (effective) Details Story Dictionary 効 merit (effective) My Story If you *combine* {交} the *strong* {力} points of various techniques, you will get the most effective style! Koohii #1 Mingling with the powerful can bring you success, bypassing the need for any merit. Koohii #2 There is great merit in mingling with the powerful. Primitives merit, mingle, top hat, father, power, muscle, arnold 効き目(ききめ): effect, virtue, efficacy, impression 効率(こうりつ): efficiency 無効(むこう): invalid, no effect, unavailable 効く(きく): be effective 効果(こうか): effect, effectiveness, efficacy, result 効力(こうりょく): effect, efficacy, validity, potency 有効(ゆうこう): validity, availability, effectiveness Kunyomi: き.く、ききめ、なら.う Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 効く (き.く)	merit (effective) 効 画数8 1369 Details Story Dictionary 効 merit (effective) My Story If you *combine* {交} the *strong* {力} points of various techniques, you will get the most effective style! Koohii #1 Mingling with the powerful can bring you success, bypassing the need for any merit. Koohii #2 There is great merit in mingling with the powerful. Primitives merit, mingle, top hat, father, power, muscle, arnold 効き目(ききめ): effect, virtue, efficacy, impression 効率(こうりつ): efficiency 無効(むこう): invalid, no effect, unavailable 効く(きく): be effective 効果(こうか): effect, effectiveness, efficacy, result 効力(こうりょく): effect, efficacy, validity, potency 有効(ゆうこう): validity, availability, effectiveness Kunyomi: き.く、ききめ、なら.う Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 効く (き.く)
contrast Details Story Dictionary 較 contrast Heisig's Cars . . . mingle. Koohii #1 The people I had invited to the party were mingling quite well with one another, until they all suddenly started talking about the cars they own. Pretty soon the crowd divided itself into distinct, contrasting crowds: rich snobs with fancy cars, soccer moms with minivans, and hippies with bicycles. Koohii #2 Our world of today, cars mingling on busy streets, is in stark contrast to the one of yesteryear, where it was people who would mingle on the streets. Primitives contrast, car, mingle, top hat, father 比較(ひかく): comparison 比較的(ひかくてき): comparatively, relatively Kunyomi: くら.べる Onyomi: カク、コウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	contrast 較 画数13 1370 Details Story Dictionary 較 contrast Heisig's Cars . . . mingle. Koohii #1 The people I had invited to the party were mingling quite well with one another, until they all suddenly started talking about the cars they own. Pretty soon the crowd divided itself into distinct, contrasting crowds: rich snobs with fancy cars, soccer moms with minivans, and hippies with bicycles. Koohii #2 Our world of today, cars mingling on busy streets, is in stark contrast to the one of yesteryear, where it was people who would mingle on the streets. Primitives contrast, car, mingle, top hat, father 比較(ひかく): comparison 比較的(ひかくてき): comparatively, relatively Kunyomi: くら.べる Onyomi: カク、コウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
exam Details Story Dictionary 校 exam Heisig's Tree . . . mingle. Koohii #1 With the exam scores posted on a TREE, the students MINGLED around looking at the results. test. 試. Koohii #2 Note: this Kanji does not mean exam. It means school. I find this keyword an choice odd as school by itself is not used elsewhere. Examples: 校長 is principal (lit. school chief); 中学校 is junior high school (lit. middle study/knowledge school). Primitives exam, tree, wood, mingle, top hat, father 校(こう): -school, proof 高等学校(こうとうがっこう): senior high school 転校(てんこう): change schools 登校(とうこう): attendance (at school) 母校(ぼこう): alma mater 校舎(こうしゃ): school building 校庭(こうてい): campus 高校(こうこう): high school 高校生(こうこうせい): high school student 校長(こうちょう): principal 小学校(しょうがっこう): primary school 中学校(ちゅうがっこう): junior high school 学校(がっこう): school Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ、キョウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds:	exam 校 画数10 1371 Details Story Dictionary 校 exam Heisig's Tree . . . mingle. Koohii #1 With the exam scores posted on a TREE, the students MINGLED around looking at the results. test. 試. Koohii #2 Note: this Kanji does not mean exam. It means school. I find this keyword an choice odd as school by itself is not used elsewhere. Examples: 校長 is principal (lit. school chief); 中学校 is junior high school (lit. middle study/knowledge school). Primitives exam, tree, wood, mingle, top hat, father 校(こう): -school, proof 高等学校(こうとうがっこう): senior high school 転校(てんこう): change schools 登校(とうこう): attendance (at school) 母校(ぼこう): alma mater 校舎(こうしゃ): school building 校庭(こうてい): campus 高校(こうこう): high school 高校生(こうこうせい): high school student 校長(こうちょう): principal 小学校(しょうがっこう): primary school 中学校(ちゅうがっこう): junior high school 学校(がっこう): school Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ、キョウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds:
leg Details Story Dictionary 足 leg Heisig's Mouth . . . mending. Note that the last stroke of mouth and the first of mending overlap. * As a primitive on the left, it is amended to something similar to correct in place of mending. Its meaning remains leg, but should be thought of as a wooden leg in order to avoid confusion with other similar elements, namely human legs, animal legs, and walking legs. Koohii #1 Captain Ahab lost his leg to the great white whale´s mouth and had to mend it with a peg leg. Koohii #2 I´ll use my mouth to mend your leg, I´ll kiss it all better :). Primitives leg, mouth, mending, mend 駆け足(かけあし): running fast, double time 足し算(たしざん): addition 裸足(はだし): barefoot 発足(はっそく): starting, inauguration 補足(ほそく): supplement, complement 物足りない(ものたりない): unsatisfied, unsatisfactory 足跡(あしあと): footprints 遠足(えんそく): trip, hike, picnic 足袋(たび): Japanese socks (with split toe) 足りる(たりる): be sufficient, be enough 足る(たる): be sufficient, be enough 不足(ふそく): insufficiency, shortage, deficiency, lack 満足(まんぞく): satisfaction 足す(たす): add 足(あし): foot, pace, gait, leg Kunyomi: あし、た.りる、た.る、た.す Onyomi: ソク Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 足 (あし), 足す (た.す), 足りる (た.りる), 足る (た.る)	leg 足 画数7 1372 Details Story Dictionary 足 leg Heisig's Mouth . . . mending. Note that the last stroke of mouth and the first of mending overlap. * As a primitive on the left, it is amended to something similar to correct in place of mending. Its meaning remains leg, but should be thought of as a wooden leg in order to avoid confusion with other similar elements, namely human legs, animal legs, and walking legs. Koohii #1 Captain Ahab lost his leg to the great white whale´s mouth and had to mend it with a peg leg. Koohii #2 I´ll use my mouth to mend your leg, I´ll kiss it all better :). Primitives leg, mouth, mending, mend 駆け足(かけあし): running fast, double time 足し算(たしざん): addition 裸足(はだし): barefoot 発足(はっそく): starting, inauguration 補足(ほそく): supplement, complement 物足りない(ものたりない): unsatisfied, unsatisfactory 足跡(あしあと): footprints 遠足(えんそく): trip, hike, picnic 足袋(たび): Japanese socks (with split toe) 足りる(たりる): be sufficient, be enough 足る(たる): be sufficient, be enough 不足(ふそく): insufficiency, shortage, deficiency, lack 満足(まんぞく): satisfaction 足す(たす): add 足(あし): foot, pace, gait, leg Kunyomi: あし、た.りる、た.る、た.す Onyomi: ソク Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 足 (あし), 足す (た.す), 足りる (た.りる), 足る (た.る)
stimulate Details Story Dictionary 促 stimulate Heisig's Person . . . leg. Koohii #1 Mr T, ever the optimist, is trying to stimulate Capt Ahab´s wooden leg by rubbing it down. Capt Ahab normally wouldn´t let anyone do that, but he appreciates Mr T´s stimulating conversation. Koohii #2 You stimulate a person by giving him a kick. Primitives stimulate, person, leg, mouth, mending, mend 促す(うながす): to urge, to press, to suggest, to demand, to stimulate, to quicken, to incite, to invite (attention to) 促進(そくしん): promotion, acceleration, encouragement, facilitation, spurring on 催促(さいそく): request, demand, claim, urge (action), press for Kunyomi: うなが.す Onyomi: ソク Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 促す (うなが.す)	stimulate 促 画数9 1373 Details Story Dictionary 促 stimulate Heisig's Person . . . leg. Koohii #1 Mr T, ever the optimist, is trying to stimulate Capt Ahab´s wooden leg by rubbing it down. Capt Ahab normally wouldn´t let anyone do that, but he appreciates Mr T´s stimulating conversation. Koohii #2 You stimulate a person by giving him a kick. Primitives stimulate, person, leg, mouth, mending, mend 促す(うながす): to urge, to press, to suggest, to demand, to stimulate, to quicken, to incite, to invite (attention to) 促進(そくしん): promotion, acceleration, encouragement, facilitation, spurring on 催促(さいそく): request, demand, claim, urge (action), press for Kunyomi: うなが.す Onyomi: ソク Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 促す (うなが.す)
nab Details Story Dictionary 捉 nab Heisig's Fingers . . . leg. Koohii #1 I felt a finger on my leg as someone tried to nab my wallet. Koohii #2 Fingers nabs Davy Jone´s wooden leg: Argh! Bring me back me leg, ya scurvy dog! Primitives nab, finger, fingers, leg, mouth, mend Kunyomi: とら.える Onyomi: ソク、サク Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 捉える (とら.える)	nab 捉 画数10 1374 Details Story Dictionary 捉 nab Heisig's Fingers . . . leg. Koohii #1 I felt a finger on my leg as someone tried to nab my wallet. Koohii #2 Fingers nabs Davy Jone´s wooden leg: Argh! Bring me back me leg, ya scurvy dog! Primitives nab, finger, fingers, leg, mouth, mend Kunyomi: とら.える Onyomi: ソク、サク Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 捉える (とら.える)
long-distance Details Story Dictionary 距 long-distance Heisig's Wooden leg . . . gigantic. Koohii #1 You can step a long-distance if you have a leg that´s gigantic! Koohii #2 You can step a long-distance if you have gigantic wooden legs (stilts). Primitives long-distance, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, giant 距離(きょり): distance, range Kunyomi: へだ.たる、けづめ Onyomi: キョ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	long-distance 距 画数12 1375 Details Story Dictionary 距 long-distance Heisig's Wooden leg . . . gigantic. Koohii #1 You can step a long-distance if you have a leg that´s gigantic! Koohii #2 You can step a long-distance if you have gigantic wooden legs (stilts). Primitives long-distance, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, giant 距離(きょり): distance, range Kunyomi: へだ.たる、けづめ Onyomi: キョ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
path Details Story Dictionary 路 path Heisig's Wooden leg . . . each. Koohii #1 When pirates try to hide, it´s always easy to find them. Their wooden legs leave distinctive prints, showing where each is hiding and the exact path he took. Koohii #2 I have a wooden leg for each type of path. One with a rubber stopper at the end for absorbing shocks on paved paths, and one with a wide foot to distribute weight better on mud paths. Primitives path, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, each, walking legs, mouth, mouth2 海路(うみじ): sea route 回路(かいろ): circuit (electric) 経路(けいろ): course, route, channel 十字路(じゅうじろ): crossroads 進路(しんろ): course, route 針路(しんろ): course, direction, compass bearing 線路(せんろ): line, track, roadbed 通路(つうろ): passage, pathway 道路(どうろ): road, highway Kunyomi: -じ、 みち Onyomi: ロ、ル Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 路 (じ)	path 路 画数13 1376 Details Story Dictionary 路 path Heisig's Wooden leg . . . each. Koohii #1 When pirates try to hide, it´s always easy to find them. Their wooden legs leave distinctive prints, showing where each is hiding and the exact path he took. Koohii #2 I have a wooden leg for each type of path. One with a rubber stopper at the end for absorbing shocks on paved paths, and one with a wide foot to distribute weight better on mud paths. Primitives path, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, each, walking legs, mouth, mouth2 海路(うみじ): sea route 回路(かいろ): circuit (electric) 経路(けいろ): course, route, channel 十字路(じゅうじろ): crossroads 進路(しんろ): course, route 針路(しんろ): course, direction, compass bearing 線路(せんろ): line, track, roadbed 通路(つうろ): passage, pathway 道路(どうろ): road, highway Kunyomi: -じ、 みち Onyomi: ロ、ル Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 路 (じ)
dew Details Story Dictionary 露 dew Heisig's Rain . . . path. Koohii #1 After the rain the path was covered with dew. Koohii #2 Dew forms on the path least weathered. Primitives dew, rain, weather, path, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, each, walking legs, mouth, mouth2 露(つゆ): dew 暴露(ばくろ): disclosure, exposure, revelation 露骨(ろこつ): frank, blunt, plain, outspoken, conspicuous, open, broad, suggestive Kunyomi: つゆ Onyomi: ロ、ロウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 露出 (ろしゅつ), 露店 (ろてん), 雨露 (あめつゆ), 露 (つゆ)	dew 露 画数21 1377 Details Story Dictionary 露 dew Heisig's Rain . . . path. Koohii #1 After the rain the path was covered with dew. Koohii #2 Dew forms on the path least weathered. Primitives dew, rain, weather, path, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, each, walking legs, mouth, mouth2 露(つゆ): dew 暴露(ばくろ): disclosure, exposure, revelation 露骨(ろこつ): frank, blunt, plain, outspoken, conspicuous, open, broad, suggestive Kunyomi: つゆ Onyomi: ロ、ロウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 露出 (ろしゅつ), 露店 (ろてん), 雨露 (あめつゆ), 露 (つゆ)
hop Details Story Dictionary 跳 hop Heisig's Wooden leg . . . portent. Koohii #1 A girl with a wooden leg always wanted to play hopscotch with the other girls, but every time she tried to hop she´d lose her balance and injure another girl. That´s why the other girls make fun of her and see her presence as a portent to injury. Koohii #2 A turtle with a wooden leg needs to hop to get around. Primitives hop, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, portent, omen 跳ぶ(とぶ): jump, fly, leap, spring, bound, hop 跳ねる(はねる): jump, leap, prance, spring up, bound, hop Kunyomi: は.ねる、と.ぶ、-と.び Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 跳ぶ (と.ぶ), 跳ねる (は.ねる)	hop 跳 画数13 1378 Details Story Dictionary 跳 hop Heisig's Wooden leg . . . portent. Koohii #1 A girl with a wooden leg always wanted to play hopscotch with the other girls, but every time she tried to hop she´d lose her balance and injure another girl. That´s why the other girls make fun of her and see her presence as a portent to injury. Koohii #2 A turtle with a wooden leg needs to hop to get around. Primitives hop, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, portent, omen 跳ぶ(とぶ): jump, fly, leap, spring, bound, hop 跳ねる(はねる): jump, leap, prance, spring up, bound, hop Kunyomi: は.ねる、と.ぶ、-と.び Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 跳ぶ (と.ぶ), 跳ねる (は.ねる)
leap Details Story Dictionary 躍 leap Heisig's Wooden leg . . . feathers . . . turkey. Koohii #1 Well, there are weekdays weekday (#576) and there are laundry days laundry (#577), and on February 29th leap day, the manufacturer recommends servicing or replacing your peg leg because they tend to wear out every 4 years. Koohii #2 [Story for people following katsuo in making feathers+turkey a ´futon´ primitive] If you´re going to leap from a high place, better hope there´s a futon below -- otherwise you´re going to break your leg at the very least... Primitives leap, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, futon, feathers, wings, turkey 活躍(かつやく): activity Kunyomi: おど.る Onyomi: ヤク Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 躍る (おど.る)	leap 躍 画数21 1379 Details Story Dictionary 躍 leap Heisig's Wooden leg . . . feathers . . . turkey. Koohii #1 Well, there are weekdays weekday (#576) and there are laundry days laundry (#577), and on February 29th leap day, the manufacturer recommends servicing or replacing your peg leg because they tend to wear out every 4 years. Koohii #2 [Story for people following katsuo in making feathers+turkey a ´futon´ primitive] If you´re going to leap from a high place, better hope there´s a futon below -- otherwise you´re going to break your leg at the very least... Primitives leap, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, futon, feathers, wings, turkey 活躍(かつやく): activity Kunyomi: おど.る Onyomi: ヤク Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 躍る (おど.る)
tread Details Story Dictionary 践 tread Heisig's Wooden leg . . . parade float. Koohii #1 The pirate with the wooden leg chased after the parade float and was run over by the next one, leaving tread marks all over him and his leg. Koohii #2 Pirates must tread carefully when walking on parade floats, so as not to break through the weak plaster with their wooden legs. Primitives tread, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, parade float 実践(じっせん): practice, put into practice Kunyomi: ふ.む Onyomi: セン Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	tread 践 画数13 1380 Details Story Dictionary 践 tread Heisig's Wooden leg . . . parade float. Koohii #1 The pirate with the wooden leg chased after the parade float and was run over by the next one, leaving tread marks all over him and his leg. Koohii #2 Pirates must tread carefully when walking on parade floats, so as not to break through the weak plaster with their wooden legs. Primitives tread, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, parade float 実践(じっせん): practice, put into practice Kunyomi: ふ.む Onyomi: セン Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"step Details Story Dictionary 踏 step Heisig's The meaning of this character is virtually identical with that of the last frame. Be sure to come up with distinct connotations suggested by phrases in which each is commonly used. Wooden leg . . . water . . . sun. Koohii #1 You have to watch your step when moving your leg on a watery day. Koohii #2 So, we´ve walked on the moon, but it´s going to take a pirate with a wooden leg, with a huge supply of cooling water to land on the sun and take that ""one small step for a man"". Primitives step, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, wednesday, boots, water, sun, day 踏まえる(ふまえる): to be based on, to have origin in 踏切(ふみきり): railway crossing, level crossing, starting line, scratch, crossover 踏む(ふむ): step on Kunyomi: ふ.む、ふ.まえる Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 踏まえる (ふ.まえる), 踏む (ふ.む)"	"step 踏 画数15 1381 Details Story Dictionary 踏 step Heisig's The meaning of this character is virtually identical with that of the last frame. Be sure to come up with distinct connotations suggested by phrases in which each is commonly used. Wooden leg . . . water . . . sun. Koohii #1 You have to watch your step when moving your leg on a watery day. Koohii #2 So, we´ve walked on the moon, but it´s going to take a pirate with a wooden leg, with a huge supply of cooling water to land on the sun and take that ""one small step for a man"". Primitives step, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, wednesday, boots, water, sun, day 踏まえる(ふまえる): to be based on, to have origin in 踏切(ふみきり): railway crossing, level crossing, starting line, scratch, crossover 踏む(ふむ): step on Kunyomi: ふ.む、ふ.まえる Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 踏まえる (ふ.まえる), 踏む (ふ.む)"
trail Details Story Dictionary 踪 trail Heisig's Wooden leg . . . religion. The key word refers to a trail of footprints or tracks left behind. Koohii #1 A trail of destruction is left by pirates and religion invaders. Koohii #2 The followers of the crazy satanic religion are following the footprints of the escaped human sacrifices who fled from the altar. Kunyomi: あと Onyomi: ショウ、 ソウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	trail 踪 画数15 1382 Details Story Dictionary 踪 trail Heisig's Wooden leg . . . religion. The key word refers to a trail of footprints or tracks left behind. Koohii #1 A trail of destruction is left by pirates and religion invaders. Koohii #2 The followers of the crazy satanic religion are following the footprints of the escaped human sacrifices who fled from the altar. Kunyomi: あと Onyomi: ショウ、 ソウ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
skeleton Details Story Dictionary 骨 skeleton Heisig's This kanji and primitive refers to the part of the body composed of the bones and their joints. The top part of the kanji, terminating in the element for crown, is a pictograph of a bone joint. I leave it to you to put the pieces together, so to speak. Koohii #1 Your body meat is attached to the bone joints of your skeleton. Koohii #2 The top box 口 is the skull and the brain 田 has shriveled to the size of marble (but following kanji convention it is depicted as a square) and rolled into the bottom right hand corner. With all the hair and flesh gone the crown has slipped down to the shoulders like a necklace. 月 represents the rest of the body of the skeleton. [Idea for position of crown thanks to n1williams]. Primitives skeleton, joint, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 骨(こつ): knack, skill 骨董品(こっとうひん): curio 露骨(ろこつ): frank, blunt, plain, outspoken, conspicuous, open, broad, suggestive 骨折(こっせつ): bone fracture 骨(ほね): bone Kunyomi: ほね Onyomi: コツ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 骨 (ほね)	skeleton 骨 画数10 1383 Details Story Dictionary 骨 skeleton Heisig's This kanji and primitive refers to the part of the body composed of the bones and their joints. The top part of the kanji, terminating in the element for crown, is a pictograph of a bone joint. I leave it to you to put the pieces together, so to speak. Koohii #1 Your body meat is attached to the bone joints of your skeleton. Koohii #2 The top box 口 is the skull and the brain 田 has shriveled to the size of marble (but following kanji convention it is depicted as a square) and rolled into the bottom right hand corner. With all the hair and flesh gone the crown has slipped down to the shoulders like a necklace. 月 represents the rest of the body of the skeleton. [Idea for position of crown thanks to n1williams]. Primitives skeleton, joint, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 骨(こつ): knack, skill 骨董品(こっとうひん): curio 露骨(ろこつ): frank, blunt, plain, outspoken, conspicuous, open, broad, suggestive 骨折(こっせつ): bone fracture 骨(ほね): bone Kunyomi: ほね Onyomi: コツ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 骨 (ほね)
"slippery Details Story Dictionary 滑 slippery Heisig's Water . . . skeleton. Koohii #1 Don´t give water to a skeleton. When he drinks it, it´ll sluice right through his bones, forcing you to put one of those ""Caution - Slippery Floor"" signs up on the resultant puddle. Koohii #2 Slippery surfaces are very dangerous for skeletons, since their bone feet slip easily... a few drops of water, and zweep! A large mess of bones to pick up and reassemble! Primitives slippery, water, water droplets, water pistol, skeleton, joint, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 円滑(えんかつ): harmony, smoothness 滑稽(こっけい): funny, humorous, comical, laughable, ridiculous, joking 滑る(すべる): to slide, to slip, to glide 滑らか(なめらか): smoothness, glassiness 滑れる(ずれる): slide, slip off Kunyomi: すべ.る、なめ.らか Onyomi: カツ、コツ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 滑る (すべ.る), 滑らか (なめ.らか)"	"slippery 滑 画数13 1384 Details Story Dictionary 滑 slippery Heisig's Water . . . skeleton. Koohii #1 Don´t give water to a skeleton. When he drinks it, it´ll sluice right through his bones, forcing you to put one of those ""Caution - Slippery Floor"" signs up on the resultant puddle. Koohii #2 Slippery surfaces are very dangerous for skeletons, since their bone feet slip easily... a few drops of water, and zweep! A large mess of bones to pick up and reassemble! Primitives slippery, water, water droplets, water pistol, skeleton, joint, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 円滑(えんかつ): harmony, smoothness 滑稽(こっけい): funny, humorous, comical, laughable, ridiculous, joking 滑る(すべる): to slide, to slip, to glide 滑らか(なめらか): smoothness, glassiness 滑れる(ずれる): slide, slip off Kunyomi: すべ.る、なめ.らか Onyomi: カツ、コツ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 滑る (すべ.る), 滑らか (なめ.らか)"
"marrow Details Story Dictionary 髄 marrow Heisig's Skeleton . . . possess . . . road. Koohii #1 A skeleton is shuffling along the shoulder of the road, so you pull up next to him and ask where he is going. He says he´s going to donate his marrow to the hospital because he got into some financial trouble and lost everything; his marrow is the only thing he still possesses. Koohii #2 A skeleton by the side of the road, holding a sign ""Possess marrow, will travel"". Yeah, it makes no sense but I don´t foget the kanji. Primitives marrow, skeleton, joint, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, highwayman, possess, by one’s side, road, moon2, month2, flesh2, part of the body2 Kunyomi: Onyomi: ズイ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"marrow 髄 画数19 1385 Details Story Dictionary 髄 marrow Heisig's Skeleton . . . possess . . . road. Koohii #1 A skeleton is shuffling along the shoulder of the road, so you pull up next to him and ask where he is going. He says he´s going to donate his marrow to the hospital because he got into some financial trouble and lost everything; his marrow is the only thing he still possesses. Koohii #2 A skeleton by the side of the road, holding a sign ""Possess marrow, will travel"". Yeah, it makes no sense but I don´t foget the kanji. Primitives marrow, skeleton, joint, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, highwayman, possess, by one’s side, road, moon2, month2, flesh2, part of the body2 Kunyomi: Onyomi: ズイ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
calamity Details Story Dictionary 禍 calamity Heisig's Altar . . . jawbone. Koohii #1 Continued from auspicious (#1088). Once a year, the people pray for a sign from the gods. But if the gods are feeling particularly mischievous, they´ll send down a jawbone to the altar. The people see this as a sign of calamity to come. The gods think of it as an amusing prank. Koohii #2 Calamity Jane went to the altar to confess her sins and the priest´s jawbone fell to the floor...　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　か　禍福　かふく (fortune and misfortune)...　Pure Group: 渦1292　過1293. Primitives calamity, altar, jawbone, joint, hood, mouth Kunyomi: わざわい Onyomi: カ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	calamity 禍 画数13 1386 Details Story Dictionary 禍 calamity Heisig's Altar . . . jawbone. Koohii #1 Continued from auspicious (#1088). Once a year, the people pray for a sign from the gods. But if the gods are feeling particularly mischievous, they´ll send down a jawbone to the altar. The people see this as a sign of calamity to come. The gods think of it as an amusing prank. Koohii #2 Calamity Jane went to the altar to confess her sins and the priest´s jawbone fell to the floor...　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　か　禍福　かふく (fortune and misfortune)...　Pure Group: 渦1292　過1293. Primitives calamity, altar, jawbone, joint, hood, mouth Kunyomi: わざわい Onyomi: カ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
whirlpool Details Story Dictionary 渦 whirlpool Heisig's Water . . . jawbone. Koohii #1 Grampa´s flushing the toilet, when his denture (Jawbone) pops out and gets sucked down the whirlpool! Koohii #2 A whirlpool is water opening its jaws to swallow anything whole. Primitives whirlpool, water, water droplets, water pistol, jawbone, joint, hood, mouth 渦(うず): swirl Kunyomi: うず Onyomi: カ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 渦 (うず)	whirlpool 渦 画数12 1387 Details Story Dictionary 渦 whirlpool Heisig's Water . . . jawbone. Koohii #1 Grampa´s flushing the toilet, when his denture (Jawbone) pops out and gets sucked down the whirlpool! Koohii #2 A whirlpool is water opening its jaws to swallow anything whole. Primitives whirlpool, water, water droplets, water pistol, jawbone, joint, hood, mouth 渦(うず): swirl Kunyomi: うず Onyomi: カ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 渦 (うず)
pot Details Story Dictionary 鍋 pot Heisig's Metal . . . jawbone. Koohii #1 A gruesome kind of cauldron that Snape might have used is a metal pot in the shape of a skull. Koohii #2 A metall pot with non-thermoconductive jawbones as handholds. Primitives pot, metal, gold, jawbone, joint, hood, mouth 鍋(なべ): saucepan, pot Kunyomi: なべ Onyomi: カ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 鍋 (なべ)	pot 鍋 画数17 1388 Details Story Dictionary 鍋 pot Heisig's Metal . . . jawbone. Koohii #1 A gruesome kind of cauldron that Snape might have used is a metal pot in the shape of a skull. Koohii #2 A metall pot with non-thermoconductive jawbones as handholds. Primitives pot, metal, gold, jawbone, joint, hood, mouth 鍋(なべ): saucepan, pot Kunyomi: なべ Onyomi: カ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 鍋 (なべ)
overdo Details Story Dictionary 過 overdo Heisig's Jawbone . . . road. Koohii #1 Jaws XII~! Jaws strikes the highway! Man, they´re really overdoing it now. Koohii #2 In ´American History X´ Edward Norton´s character overdoes it when he makes the dude that tried to steal his car lie face down with his jawbone open over the pavement of the roadway and then stamps on the back of his head. My teeth still tingle when I think of that! Primitives overdo, jawbone, joint, hood, mouth, road 過ち(あやまち): fault, error, indiscretion 過疎(かそ): depopulation 過多(かた): excess, superabundance 過密(かみつ): crowded 過労(かろう): overwork, strain 経過(けいか): passage, expiration, progress 過ぎ(すぎ): past, after 過去(かこ): the past, bygone days, the previous 過失(かしつ): error, blunder, accident 過剰(かじょう): excess 過程(かてい): a process 過半数(かはんすう): majority 過ごす(すごす): pass, spend, go through, tide over 超過(ちょうか): excess, being more than 通過(つうか): passage through, passing 通り過ぎる(とおりすぎる): pass, pass through 過ぎる(すぎる): pass Kunyomi: す.ぎる、-す.ぎる、-す.ぎ、す.ごす、あやま.つ、あやま.ち、よ.ぎる Onyomi: カ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 過ち (あやま.ち), 過つ (あやま.つ), 過ぎる (す.ぎる), 過ごす (す.ごす)	overdo 過 画数12 1389 Details Story Dictionary 過 overdo Heisig's Jawbone . . . road. Koohii #1 Jaws XII~! Jaws strikes the highway! Man, they´re really overdoing it now. Koohii #2 In ´American History X´ Edward Norton´s character overdoes it when he makes the dude that tried to steal his car lie face down with his jawbone open over the pavement of the roadway and then stamps on the back of his head. My teeth still tingle when I think of that! Primitives overdo, jawbone, joint, hood, mouth, road 過ち(あやまち): fault, error, indiscretion 過疎(かそ): depopulation 過多(かた): excess, superabundance 過密(かみつ): crowded 過労(かろう): overwork, strain 経過(けいか): passage, expiration, progress 過ぎ(すぎ): past, after 過去(かこ): the past, bygone days, the previous 過失(かしつ): error, blunder, accident 過剰(かじょう): excess 過程(かてい): a process 過半数(かはんすう): majority 過ごす(すごす): pass, spend, go through, tide over 超過(ちょうか): excess, being more than 通過(つうか): passage through, passing 通り過ぎる(とおりすぎる): pass, pass through 過ぎる(すぎる): pass Kunyomi: す.ぎる、-す.ぎる、-す.ぎ、す.ごす、あやま.つ、あやま.ち、よ.ぎる Onyomi: カ Lesson: 34 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 過ち (あやま.ち), 過つ (あやま.つ), 過ぎる (す.ぎる), 過ごす (す.ごす)
"Heights Details Story Dictionary 阪 Heights Heisig's This character is used for proper names, much as the English word ""Heights"" is. Its primitives: pinnacle . . . anti-. Koohii #1 If you´re scared of Heights, you don´t want to stay at The Pinnacle; you are anti- The Pinnacle. Primitive: The Pinnacle is a dream-like gated community at the top of a mount. This allows for innumerable stories for all the kanji with this primitive since you have a whole city to work with. Also prevents confusion with ""mountain"". Koohii #2 People are being displaced in 大阪 to make room for a new development, Osaka Heights, the pinnacle of modern Japanese housing. An angry mob of protestors are outside with Anti-Osaka Heights signs. Primitives heights, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch Kunyomi: さか Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 阪 (さか)"	"Heights 阪 画数7 1390 Details Story Dictionary 阪 Heights Heisig's This character is used for proper names, much as the English word ""Heights"" is. Its primitives: pinnacle . . . anti-. Koohii #1 If you´re scared of Heights, you don´t want to stay at The Pinnacle; you are anti- The Pinnacle. Primitive: The Pinnacle is a dream-like gated community at the top of a mount. This allows for innumerable stories for all the kanji with this primitive since you have a whole city to work with. Also prevents confusion with ""mountain"". Koohii #2 People are being displaced in 大阪 to make room for a new development, Osaka Heights, the pinnacle of modern Japanese housing. An angry mob of protestors are outside with Anti-Osaka Heights signs. Primitives heights, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch Kunyomi: さか Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 阪 (さか)"
"Africa Details Story Dictionary 阿 Africa Heisig's This kanji, an abbreviation for Africa, is now used chiefly for its sound, ""a,"" not unlike the kanji for Italy and the sound ""i"" that we met earlier (Frame 1245). Its composite elements are: pinnacles . . . can. Koohii #1 Can you see Africa from The Pinnacle? I can! I can! Koohii #2 A kinda pictogram: ´BoT´, the first 3 letters in ´Botswana´ an African country. Primitives africa, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, can, mouth, street, nail, spike Kunyomi: おもね.る Onyomi: ア、オ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"Africa 阿 画数8 1391 Details Story Dictionary 阿 Africa Heisig's This kanji, an abbreviation for Africa, is now used chiefly for its sound, ""a,"" not unlike the kanji for Italy and the sound ""i"" that we met earlier (Frame 1245). Its composite elements are: pinnacles . . . can. Koohii #1 Can you see Africa from The Pinnacle? I can! I can! Koohii #2 A kinda pictogram: ´BoT´, the first 3 letters in ´Botswana´ an African country. Primitives africa, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, can, mouth, street, nail, spike Kunyomi: おもね.る Onyomi: ア、オ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
occasion Details Story Dictionary 際 occasion Heisig's Pinnacle . . . ritual. Koohii #1 Many rituals are practiced every day (blessing before meals, evening prayer, etc.) Only the peak rituals (wedding, Bar Mitzvah, etc.) qualify to be called an occasion. Koohii #2 On occasian, rituals are held at the very tip of The Pinnacle. Primitives occasion, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, ritual, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, crotch, altar, show, two, small 際(きわ): edge, brink, verge, side 手際(てぎわ): performance, skill, tact 交際(こうさい): company, friendship, association, society, acquaintance 際(さい): edge, brink, verge, side 実際(じっさい): practical, actual condition, status quo 国際(こくさい): international Kunyomi: きわ、-ぎわ Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 際 (きわ)	occasion 際 画数14 1392 Details Story Dictionary 際 occasion Heisig's Pinnacle . . . ritual. Koohii #1 Many rituals are practiced every day (blessing before meals, evening prayer, etc.) Only the peak rituals (wedding, Bar Mitzvah, etc.) qualify to be called an occasion. Koohii #2 On occasian, rituals are held at the very tip of The Pinnacle. Primitives occasion, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, ritual, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, crotch, altar, show, two, small 際(きわ): edge, brink, verge, side 手際(てぎわ): performance, skill, tact 交際(こうさい): company, friendship, association, society, acquaintance 際(さい): edge, brink, verge, side 実際(じっさい): practical, actual condition, status quo 国際(こくさい): international Kunyomi: きわ、-ぎわ Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 際 (きわ)
hinder Details Story Dictionary 障 hinder Heisig's Pinnacle . . . badge. Koohii #1 The officer at the gate to The Pinnacle with a giant badge sewn to his chest hinders all visitors. But not the handicapped. They´re hindered enough already. They´re given a badge and can pass right into The Pinnacle. Koohii #2 The pinnacle of racism was that of the Nazis. They made the Jews wear a badge on their clothes to identify them. They hindered their every movement. Moreover the peace-loving Dutch all wore the badges so that the Jews would be unidentifiable. Effectively hindering the Nazi plot. Primitives hinder, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, badge, vase, stand up, sunflower, early, sun, day, ten, needle 気障(きざ): affectation, conceit, snobbery 障る(さわる): to hinder, to interfere with, to affect, to do one harm, to be harmful to 保障(ほしょう): guarantee, security, assurance, pledge, warranty 障害(しょうがい): obstacle, impediment (fault), damage 障子(しょうじ): paper sliding door 故障(こしょう): breakdown Kunyomi: さわ.る Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 障る (さわ.る)	hinder 障 画数14 1393 Details Story Dictionary 障 hinder Heisig's Pinnacle . . . badge. Koohii #1 The officer at the gate to The Pinnacle with a giant badge sewn to his chest hinders all visitors. But not the handicapped. They´re hindered enough already. They´re given a badge and can pass right into The Pinnacle. Koohii #2 The pinnacle of racism was that of the Nazis. They made the Jews wear a badge on their clothes to identify them. They hindered their every movement. Moreover the peace-loving Dutch all wore the badges so that the Jews would be unidentifiable. Effectively hindering the Nazi plot. Primitives hinder, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, badge, vase, stand up, sunflower, early, sun, day, ten, needle 気障(きざ): affectation, conceit, snobbery 障る(さわる): to hinder, to interfere with, to affect, to do one harm, to be harmful to 保障(ほしょう): guarantee, security, assurance, pledge, warranty 障害(しょうがい): obstacle, impediment (fault), damage 障子(しょうじ): paper sliding door 故障(こしょう): breakdown Kunyomi: さわ.る Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 障る (さわ.る)
chink Details Story Dictionary 隙 chink Heisig's Pinnacle . . . little . . . sun . . . little. Note that the form of the first element for little given here is the simpler form that has become standard in general-use characters (See Frame 110). For the time being, until typesetting fonts have made the adjustment, the official approved drawing has the drops similar to the bottom little. Koohii #1 There was only one chink in his plan. Even standing atop the highest pinnacle, standing above even the sun, the little man was still just as little as when he was under the sun. Koohii #2 Man those little chinks can do anything! They were the first to build rockets, and by launching one off the top of the highest pinnacle in China, one little chink was the first to ride above the sun, and see all the little chinks below! Primitives chink, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, small, little, sun, day, small2, little, 2 隙間(すきま): crevice, crack, gap, opening Kunyomi: すき、す.く、す.かす、ひま Onyomi: ゲキ、キャク、ケキ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 隙 (すき)	chink 隙 画数13 1394 Details Story Dictionary 隙 chink Heisig's Pinnacle . . . little . . . sun . . . little. Note that the form of the first element for little given here is the simpler form that has become standard in general-use characters (See Frame 110). For the time being, until typesetting fonts have made the adjustment, the official approved drawing has the drops similar to the bottom little. Koohii #1 There was only one chink in his plan. Even standing atop the highest pinnacle, standing above even the sun, the little man was still just as little as when he was under the sun. Koohii #2 Man those little chinks can do anything! They were the first to build rockets, and by launching one off the top of the highest pinnacle in China, one little chink was the first to ride above the sun, and see all the little chinks below! Primitives chink, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, small, little, sun, day, small2, little, 2 隙間(すきま): crevice, crack, gap, opening Kunyomi: すき、す.く、す.かす、ひま Onyomi: ゲキ、キャク、ケキ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 隙 (すき)
follow Details Story Dictionary 随 follow Heisig's Pinnacle . . . possess . . . road. Koohii #1 [Image: Follow the ´Yellow-Brick Road´ to success] The pinnacle signifies your personal goal and destination. What you´re seeking to possess lies at the end of the yellow-brick road. You must follow the road to get what you want. Koohii #2 I fled to The Pinnacle for safety, but the demon followed me right up the road! Primitives follow, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, highwayman, possess, by one’s side, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, road 随分(ずいぶん): pretty much, very much 随筆(ずいひつ): essays, miscellaneous writings Kunyomi: まにまに、したが.う Onyomi: ズイ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	follow 随 画数12 1395 Details Story Dictionary 随 follow Heisig's Pinnacle . . . possess . . . road. Koohii #1 [Image: Follow the ´Yellow-Brick Road´ to success] The pinnacle signifies your personal goal and destination. What you´re seeking to possess lies at the end of the yellow-brick road. You must follow the road to get what you want. Koohii #2 I fled to The Pinnacle for safety, but the demon followed me right up the road! Primitives follow, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, highwayman, possess, by one’s side, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, road 随分(ずいぶん): pretty much, very much 随筆(ずいひつ): essays, miscellaneous writings Kunyomi: まにまに、したが.う Onyomi: ズイ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
auxiliary Details Story Dictionary 陪 auxiliary Heisig's Pinnacle . . . muzzle. Koohii #1 In case of emergency, The Pinnacle has auxiliary guard dogs, but they keep them muzzeled until they´re needed. Koohii #2 When you climb the pinnacle you´ll need to take a muzzle of auxiliary oxygen. Primitives obeisance, auxiliary, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, muzzle, vase, stand up, mouth Kunyomi: Onyomi: バイ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	auxiliary 陪 画数11 1396 Details Story Dictionary 陪 auxiliary Heisig's Pinnacle . . . muzzle. Koohii #1 In case of emergency, The Pinnacle has auxiliary guard dogs, but they keep them muzzeled until they´re needed. Koohii #2 When you climb the pinnacle you´ll need to take a muzzle of auxiliary oxygen. Primitives obeisance, auxiliary, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, muzzle, vase, stand up, mouth Kunyomi: Onyomi: バイ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"sunshine Details Story Dictionary 陽 sunshine Heisig's Different from the primitive for sun (which figures in the character) and the kanji for ray (Frame 125), the key word sunshine is meant to convey the meaning of the masculine principle in nature, or ""Yang."" (The dark is viewed mythically as the feminine principle; see frame 1718.) From there it comes to mean sun also. The elements are: pinnacle . . . piggy bank. Koohii #1 A kid is perched on a pinnacle with his piggy bank. He uses the coins to catch the sunshine, and redirect it into people´s eyes, far below. Koohii #2 The Pinnacle is environmentally friendly. They collect solar power through sunshine on their piggybank shaped solar arrays. Primitives sunshine, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, piggy bank, sun, day, piglets 太陽(たいよう): sun, solar 陽射(ひざし): sunlight 陽気(ようき): season, weather, cheerfulness Kunyomi: ひ Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"sunshine 陽 画数12 1397 Details Story Dictionary 陽 sunshine Heisig's Different from the primitive for sun (which figures in the character) and the kanji for ray (Frame 125), the key word sunshine is meant to convey the meaning of the masculine principle in nature, or ""Yang."" (The dark is viewed mythically as the feminine principle; see frame 1718.) From there it comes to mean sun also. The elements are: pinnacle . . . piggy bank. Koohii #1 A kid is perched on a pinnacle with his piggy bank. He uses the coins to catch the sunshine, and redirect it into people´s eyes, far below. Koohii #2 The Pinnacle is environmentally friendly. They collect solar power through sunshine on their piggybank shaped solar arrays. Primitives sunshine, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, piggy bank, sun, day, piglets 太陽(たいよう): sun, solar 陽射(ひざし): sunlight 陽気(ようき): season, weather, cheerfulness Kunyomi: ひ Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
line up Details Story Dictionary 陳 line up Heisig's Pinnacle . . . east. Koohii #1 Every morning at The Pinnacle, the residents line upon the East side for morning stretches and leisure. Koohii #2 Hikers line up to get to the top of that great pinnacle of the East... Mount Fuji. Seriously, they really do! ...probably the only mountain in the world with a queue at the top. Primitives exhibit, line up, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, east, tree, wood, sun, day 陳列(ちんれつ): exhibition, display, show Kunyomi: ひ.ねる Onyomi: チン Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	line up 陳 画数11 1398 Details Story Dictionary 陳 line up Heisig's Pinnacle . . . east. Koohii #1 Every morning at The Pinnacle, the residents line upon the East side for morning stretches and leisure. Koohii #2 Hikers line up to get to the top of that great pinnacle of the East... Mount Fuji. Seriously, they really do! ...probably the only mountain in the world with a queue at the top. Primitives exhibit, line up, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, east, tree, wood, sun, day 陳列(ちんれつ): exhibition, display, show Kunyomi: ひ.ねる Onyomi: チン Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
ward off Details Story Dictionary 防 ward off My Story [Town + direction] Koohii #1 A giant compass is The Pinnacle´s self-defense system. It points in the direction of any invaders so the city is prepared well ahead to ward off the intruders. Koohii #2 To ward off enemies, the ancient Greece kept watch from the Acropolis, where they had a clear view in all directions. Primitives ward off, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, compass, direction 国防(こくぼう): national defence 堤防(ていぼう): bank, weir 防衛(ぼうえい): defense, protection, self-defense 防火(ぼうか): fire prevention, fire fighting, fire proof 消防(しょうぼう): fire fighting, fire department 消防署(しょうぼうしょ): fire station 防ぐ(ふせぐ): defend (against), protect, prevent 防止(ぼうし): prevention, check 防犯(ぼうはん): prevention of crime 予防(よぼう): prevention, precaution, protection against Kunyomi: ふせ.ぐ Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 防ぐ (ふせ.ぐ)	ward off 防 画数7 1399 Details Story Dictionary 防 ward off My Story [Town + direction] Koohii #1 A giant compass is The Pinnacle´s self-defense system. It points in the direction of any invaders so the city is prepared well ahead to ward off the intruders. Koohii #2 To ward off enemies, the ancient Greece kept watch from the Acropolis, where they had a clear view in all directions. Primitives ward off, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, compass, direction 国防(こくぼう): national defence 堤防(ていぼう): bank, weir 防衛(ぼうえい): defense, protection, self-defense 防火(ぼうか): fire prevention, fire fighting, fire proof 消防(しょうぼう): fire fighting, fire department 消防署(しょうぼうしょ): fire station 防ぐ(ふせぐ): defend (against), protect, prevent 防止(ぼうし): prevention, check 防犯(ぼうはん): prevention of crime 予防(よぼう): prevention, precaution, protection against Kunyomi: ふせ.ぐ Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 防ぐ (ふせ.ぐ)
affixed Details Story Dictionary 附 affixed Heisig's Pinnacle . . . adhere. Koohii #1 A sign was AFFIXED on the PINNACLE of the Acropolis so that tourists would ADHERE to the rules. Koohii #2 The Pinnacle is firmly affixed to the top of the mount with bubble gum. (adhere (#1000)). Primitives affixed, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, adhere, sellotape, person, glue 附属(ふぞく): attached, belonging, affiliated, annexed, associated, subordinate, incidental, dependent, auxiliary Kunyomi: つ.ける、つ.く Onyomi: フ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	affixed 附 画数8 1400 Details Story Dictionary 附 affixed Heisig's Pinnacle . . . adhere. Koohii #1 A sign was AFFIXED on the PINNACLE of the Acropolis so that tourists would ADHERE to the rules. Koohii #2 The Pinnacle is firmly affixed to the top of the mount with bubble gum. (adhere (#1000)). Primitives affixed, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, adhere, sellotape, person, glue 附属(ふぞく): attached, belonging, affiliated, annexed, associated, subordinate, incidental, dependent, auxiliary Kunyomi: つ.ける、つ.く Onyomi: フ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
Inst. Details Story Dictionary 院 Inst. My Story [Town + perfect {完}] The *Town* of Acropolis is the perfect place for an #Institute# to study Ancient Greece. Koohii #1 The Institution of The Pinnacle is perfect in every way. It is the new House of God, his chosen city. Koohii #2 To reach the pinnacle of kanji perfect you need to attend the Heisig Inst. Primitives Inst., pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, perfect, house, beginnings, two, human legs 参議院(さんぎいん): House of Councillors 衆議院(しゅうぎいん): Lower House, House of Representatives 寺院(じいん): temple 大学院(だいがくいん): graduate school 退院(たいいん): leave hospital 入院(にゅういん): enter hospital 病院(びょういん): hospital Kunyomi: Onyomi: イン Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:	Inst. 院 画数10 1401 Details Story Dictionary 院 Inst. My Story [Town + perfect {完}] The *Town* of Acropolis is the perfect place for an #Institute# to study Ancient Greece. Koohii #1 The Institution of The Pinnacle is perfect in every way. It is the new House of God, his chosen city. Koohii #2 To reach the pinnacle of kanji perfect you need to attend the Heisig Inst. Primitives Inst., pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, perfect, house, beginnings, two, human legs 参議院(さんぎいん): House of Councillors 衆議院(しゅうぎいん): Lower House, House of Representatives 寺院(じいん): temple 大学院(だいがくいん): graduate school 退院(たいいん): leave hospital 入院(にゅういん): enter hospital 病院(びょういん): hospital Kunyomi: Onyomi: イン Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:
camp Details Story Dictionary 陣 camp Heisig's Pinnacle . . . car. Koohii #1 Paparazzi make camp outside of The Pinnacle in their cars, waiting for the celebs to come out. Koohii #2 Note: This kanji is most often used in a military context. Story: Here we see an encampment of military vehicles laying siege to The Pinnacle. With other countries being envious of the perfect life they lead there that makes sense. Fortunately, the pinnacle knows how to ward off (#1302) enemies. Primitives camp, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, car Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジン Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	camp 陣 画数10 1402 Details Story Dictionary 陣 camp Heisig's Pinnacle . . . car. Koohii #1 Paparazzi make camp outside of The Pinnacle in their cars, waiting for the celebs to come out. Koohii #2 Note: This kanji is most often used in a military context. Story: Here we see an encampment of military vehicles laying siege to The Pinnacle. With other countries being envious of the perfect life they lead there that makes sense. Fortunately, the pinnacle knows how to ward off (#1302) enemies. Primitives camp, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, car Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジン Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"regiment Details Story Dictionary 隊 regiment Heisig's Pinnacle . . . animal horns . . . sow. Koohii #1 Every regiment of The Pinnacle´s army is lead by a Miss Piggy with a viking helmet on. Koohii #2 Every regiment of The Pinnacle´s army has an animal name. This regiment is called ""Horned Pig Regiment"". They´re wearing Wiking helms and are usually cowered in mud. Primitives regiment, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, animal horns, sow, pig, wart hog, regimental mascot 軍隊(ぐんたい): army, troops 兵隊(へいたい): soldier, sailor Kunyomi: Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"regiment 隊 画数12 1403 Details Story Dictionary 隊 regiment Heisig's Pinnacle . . . animal horns . . . sow. Koohii #1 Every regiment of The Pinnacle´s army is lead by a Miss Piggy with a viking helmet on. Koohii #2 Every regiment of The Pinnacle´s army has an animal name. This regiment is called ""Horned Pig Regiment"". They´re wearing Wiking helms and are usually cowered in mud. Primitives regiment, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, animal horns, sow, pig, wart hog, regimental mascot 軍隊(ぐんたい): army, troops 兵隊(へいたい): soldier, sailor Kunyomi: Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
crash Details Story Dictionary 墜 crash Heisig's Regiment . . . ground. Koohii #1 One of the members of our air force regiment has been shot down; he managed to safely eject, but his plane crashed into the ground. Koohii #2 The regiment led by horny Miss Piggy wearing a viking helmet accidently falls off The Pinnacle and crashes into the ground below. // old story with wrong meaning of regiment: Kermit is so frustrated with horny Miss Piggy´s regimented sex schedule, he throws her off The Pinnacle and she crashes into the ground. Primitives crash, regiment, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, animal horns, sow, pig, wart hog, regimental mascot, soil, dirt, ground 墜落(ついらく): falling, crashing Kunyomi: お.ちる、お.つ Onyomi: ツイ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	crash 墜 画数15 1404 Details Story Dictionary 墜 crash Heisig's Regiment . . . ground. Koohii #1 One of the members of our air force regiment has been shot down; he managed to safely eject, but his plane crashed into the ground. Koohii #2 The regiment led by horny Miss Piggy wearing a viking helmet accidently falls off The Pinnacle and crashes into the ground below. // old story with wrong meaning of regiment: Kermit is so frustrated with horny Miss Piggy´s regimented sex schedule, he throws her off The Pinnacle and she crashes into the ground. Primitives crash, regiment, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, animal horns, sow, pig, wart hog, regimental mascot, soil, dirt, ground 墜落(ついらく): falling, crashing Kunyomi: お.ちる、お.つ Onyomi: ツイ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"descend /rainfall / get out of v Details Story Dictionary 降 descend /rainfall / get out of v My Story [Town + each (bottom) + Fuck] When I descend at a *town*, I give *each* local a good *fuck* Koohii #1 Sunglasses-missing-one-lens is obviously the monocle. The proper, high-class way to descend The Pinnacle is wearing a monocle with your walking legs splayed to a full gentlemanly stride. Koohii #2 After a cool, hip businessman angered the executives at The Pinnacle, they beat him up, popping out a lens from his sunglasses, and tossed out the window, head first, walking legs second. One executive later commented, ""It was like he was descending into Hell from Heaven!"". Primitives descend, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, walking legs, sunglasses with one lens missing, monocle 降ろす(おろす): to take down, to launch, to drop, to lower, to let (a person) off, to unload, to discharge 降水(こうすい): rainfall, precipitation 降伏(こうふく): capitulation, surrender, submission 以降(いこう): on and after, hereafter, thereafter 下降(かこう): downward, descent, fall, drop 降りる(おりる): get off, descend (e.g. a mountain) 降る(ふる): to precipitate, to fall (e.g. rain) Kunyomi: お.りる、お.ろす、ふ.る、ふ.り、くだ.る、くだ.す Onyomi: コウ、ゴ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 降りる (お.りる), 降ろす (お.ろす), 降る (ふ.る)"	"descend /rainfall / get out of v 降 画数10 1405 Details Story Dictionary 降 descend /rainfall / get out of v My Story [Town + each (bottom) + Fuck] When I descend at a *town*, I give *each* local a good *fuck* Koohii #1 Sunglasses-missing-one-lens is obviously the monocle. The proper, high-class way to descend The Pinnacle is wearing a monocle with your walking legs splayed to a full gentlemanly stride. Koohii #2 After a cool, hip businessman angered the executives at The Pinnacle, they beat him up, popping out a lens from his sunglasses, and tossed out the window, head first, walking legs second. One executive later commented, ""It was like he was descending into Hell from Heaven!"". Primitives descend, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, walking legs, sunglasses with one lens missing, monocle 降ろす(おろす): to take down, to launch, to drop, to lower, to let (a person) off, to unload, to discharge 降水(こうすい): rainfall, precipitation 降伏(こうふく): capitulation, surrender, submission 以降(いこう): on and after, hereafter, thereafter 下降(かこう): downward, descent, fall, drop 降りる(おりる): get off, descend (e.g. a mountain) 降る(ふる): to precipitate, to fall (e.g. rain) Kunyomi: お.りる、お.ろす、ふ.る、ふ.り、くだ.る、くだ.す Onyomi: コウ、ゴ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 降りる (お.りる), 降ろす (お.ろす), 降る (ふ.る)"
story Details Story Dictionary 階 story My Story [Town + All {皆}] In this *town*, *all people* live in 3 story buildings (floors of a building) Koohii #1 All buildings of The Pinnacle are multi-storey. They don´t have much room, so they have to build up. It sucks when someone presses all the buttons on the elevator! You have to stop at each storey! Koohii #2 Some stupid kid has pushed all the buttons in the elevator. As it stops at all storeys you reach a pinnacle of impatience. Finally you reach your storey, the last one, at the pinnacle of the building. Primitives storey, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, all, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, white, dove, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 階(かい): -floor (counter), stories 階級(かいきゅう): class, rank, grade 階層(かいそう): class, level, stratum, hierarchy 段階(だんかい): gradation, grade, stage 階段(かいだん): stairs Kunyomi: きざはし Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	story 階 画数12 1406 Details Story Dictionary 階 story My Story [Town + All {皆}] In this *town*, *all people* live in 3 story buildings (floors of a building) Koohii #1 All buildings of The Pinnacle are multi-storey. They don´t have much room, so they have to build up. It sucks when someone presses all the buttons on the elevator! You have to stop at each storey! Koohii #2 Some stupid kid has pushed all the buttons in the elevator. As it stops at all storeys you reach a pinnacle of impatience. Finally you reach your storey, the last one, at the pinnacle of the building. Primitives storey, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, all, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, white, dove, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 階(かい): -floor (counter), stories 階級(かいきゅう): class, rank, grade 階層(かいそう): class, level, stratum, hierarchy 段階(だんかい): gradation, grade, stage 階段(かいだん): stairs Kunyomi: きざはし Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
highness Details Story Dictionary 陛 highness Heisig's This key word indicates a title of address to royalty. Its elements: pinnacle . . . compare . . . ground. Koohii #1 Your highness is the pinnacle of finesse compared to all of us commoners who are but like dirt on the ground. Koohii #2 His Highness, the main man at the Pinnacle, often compares those who live outside the city´s walls to dirt. Primitives highness, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, soil, dirt, ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヘイ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	highness 陛 画数10 1407 Details Story Dictionary 陛 highness Heisig's This key word indicates a title of address to royalty. Its elements: pinnacle . . . compare . . . ground. Koohii #1 Your highness is the pinnacle of finesse compared to all of us commoners who are but like dirt on the ground. Koohii #2 His Highness, the main man at the Pinnacle, often compares those who live outside the city´s walls to dirt. Primitives highness, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, soil, dirt, ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヘイ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
neighboring Details Story Dictionary 隣 neighboring My Story [Town + Rice + Date (evening + fuck)] I'm *dating* an *rice* picker, from the neighboring *town*. Koohii #1 America thinks it is the pinnacle of the world, looking down on all neighboring countries through its mirrored, aviator sunglasses. Koohii #2 All the neighboring communities to the Pinnacle have a major problem. The kids at the Pinnacle have a habit of throwing down rice from the city walls in all directions, so people in neighboring communities are forced to wear sunglasses all the time in order to avoid getting rice in their eyes. Primitives neighbouring, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, shoeshine, rice, sunglasses, dancing legs, ballerina, evening 隣(となり): next to, next door to Kunyomi: とな.る、となり Onyomi: リン Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 隣る (とな.る), 隣 (となり)	neighboring 隣 画数16 1408 Details Story Dictionary 隣 neighboring My Story [Town + Rice + Date (evening + fuck)] I'm *dating* an *rice* picker, from the neighboring *town*. Koohii #1 America thinks it is the pinnacle of the world, looking down on all neighboring countries through its mirrored, aviator sunglasses. Koohii #2 All the neighboring communities to the Pinnacle have a major problem. The kids at the Pinnacle have a habit of throwing down rice from the city walls in all directions, so people in neighboring communities are forced to wear sunglasses all the time in order to avoid getting rice in their eyes. Primitives neighbouring, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, shoeshine, rice, sunglasses, dancing legs, ballerina, evening 隣(となり): next to, next door to Kunyomi: とな.る、となり Onyomi: リン Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 隣る (とな.る), 隣 (となり)
"isolate Details Story Dictionary 隔 isolate Heisig's Pinnacle . . . ceiling . . . mouth . . . glass canopy . . . human legs . . . spike. You might want to compare the kanji for dissolve (Frame 1123). Koohii #1 The Pinnacle, to me, is a city that makes itself out to be perfect but is filled with dirty secrets that photographers are always trying to reveal (see dissolve (#1044) The city´s councilmen have isolated all professional photographers to make sure they don´t photograph these ""dirty secrets"". (which are up to your imagination). Koohii #2 The people of the pinnacle isolate themselves, dissolving any outside friendships. Primitives isolate, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, tripod, one, ceiling, mouth, hood, human legs, street, nail, spike 隔週(かくしゅう): every other week 隔たる(へだたる): to be distant 間隔(かんかく): space, interval 隔てる(へだてる): be shut out, separate, isolate Kunyomi: へだ.てる、へだ.たる Onyomi: カク Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 隔たる (ひだ.たる), 隔てる (へだ.てる)"	"isolate 隔 画数13 1409 Details Story Dictionary 隔 isolate Heisig's Pinnacle . . . ceiling . . . mouth . . . glass canopy . . . human legs . . . spike. You might want to compare the kanji for dissolve (Frame 1123). Koohii #1 The Pinnacle, to me, is a city that makes itself out to be perfect but is filled with dirty secrets that photographers are always trying to reveal (see dissolve (#1044) The city´s councilmen have isolated all professional photographers to make sure they don´t photograph these ""dirty secrets"". (which are up to your imagination). Koohii #2 The people of the pinnacle isolate themselves, dissolving any outside friendships. Primitives isolate, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, tripod, one, ceiling, mouth, hood, human legs, street, nail, spike 隔週(かくしゅう): every other week 隔たる(へだたる): to be distant 間隔(かんかく): space, interval 隔てる(へだてる): be shut out, separate, isolate Kunyomi: へだ.てる、へだ.たる Onyomi: カク Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 隔たる (ひだ.たる), 隔てる (へだ.てる)"
conceal Details Story Dictionary 隠 conceal Heisig's Pinnacle . . . vulture . . . broom . . . heart. Compare the element sat the right to the kanji for calm (Frame 1230). Koohii #1 The wheat farmer´s heart is calm (#1147) about the eagle not stealing his crops because of the broom scarecrow. But he still conceals all his wheat at The Pinnacle in case anyone else trys to steal it. Koohii #2 Move the broom with a vulture perched on top, and you´ll find the concealed entrance to the heart of The Pinnacle. Primitives conceal, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, hideaway, claw, vulture, broom, heart 隠居(いんきょ): retirement, retired person 隠す(かくす): to hide, to conceal 隠れる(かくれる): hide, be hidden, conceal oneself, disappear Kunyomi: かく.す、かく.し、かく.れる、かか.す、よ.る Onyomi: イン、オン Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 隠す (かく.す), 隠れる (かく.れる)	conceal 隠 画数14 1410 Details Story Dictionary 隠 conceal Heisig's Pinnacle . . . vulture . . . broom . . . heart. Compare the element sat the right to the kanji for calm (Frame 1230). Koohii #1 The wheat farmer´s heart is calm (#1147) about the eagle not stealing his crops because of the broom scarecrow. But he still conceals all his wheat at The Pinnacle in case anyone else trys to steal it. Koohii #2 Move the broom with a vulture perched on top, and you´ll find the concealed entrance to the heart of The Pinnacle. Primitives conceal, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, hideaway, claw, vulture, broom, heart 隠居(いんきょ): retirement, retired person 隠す(かくす): to hide, to conceal 隠れる(かくれる): hide, be hidden, conceal oneself, disappear Kunyomi: かく.す、かく.し、かく.れる、かか.す、よ.る Onyomi: イン、オン Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 隠す (かく.す), 隠れる (かく.れる)
"degenerate Details Story Dictionary 堕 degenerate Heisig's Pinnacle . . . possess . . . ground. Koohii #1 Any attempt to possess the pinnacle will degenerate into a land (""ground"") war. Koohii #2 A degenerate doctor at The Pinnacle is doing illegal abortions. He´s so sick he just throws the aborted fetuses onto the ground far below. And like a possess demon, he keeps some tied to his side on a belt as trophies. Primitives degenerate, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, possess, by one’s side, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, ground, soil, dirt, ground Kunyomi: お.ちる、くず.す、くず.れる Onyomi: ダ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"degenerate 堕 画数12 1411 Details Story Dictionary 堕 degenerate Heisig's Pinnacle . . . possess . . . ground. Koohii #1 Any attempt to possess the pinnacle will degenerate into a land (""ground"") war. Koohii #2 A degenerate doctor at The Pinnacle is doing illegal abortions. He´s so sick he just throws the aborted fetuses onto the ground far below. And like a possess demon, he keeps some tied to his side on a belt as trophies. Primitives degenerate, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, possess, by one’s side, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, ground, soil, dirt, ground Kunyomi: お.ちる、くず.す、くず.れる Onyomi: ダ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
collapse Details Story Dictionary 陥 collapse Heisig's Pinnacle . . . bound up . . . olden times. Koohii #1 The Pinnacle is actually bound up by supports from olden times. Eventually, they give out, and the whole thing starts to collapse. Koohii #2 The Pinnacle is supported by pilings which were bound up in olden times. One day when the bindings rot away, the whole thing will collapse. (tweaking dihutensoa´s story to work a little better for me). Primitives collapse, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, straight-jacket, bound up, olden times, old days, stick, sun, day 欠陥(けっかん): defect, fault, deficiency Kunyomi: おちい.る、おとしい.れる Onyomi: カン Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 陥る (おちい.る), 陥れる (おとしい.れる)	collapse 陥 画数10 1412 Details Story Dictionary 陥 collapse Heisig's Pinnacle . . . bound up . . . olden times. Koohii #1 The Pinnacle is actually bound up by supports from olden times. Eventually, they give out, and the whole thing starts to collapse. Koohii #2 The Pinnacle is supported by pilings which were bound up in olden times. One day when the bindings rot away, the whole thing will collapse. (tweaking dihutensoa´s story to work a little better for me). Primitives collapse, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, straight-jacket, bound up, olden times, old days, stick, sun, day 欠陥(けっかん): defect, fault, deficiency Kunyomi: おちい.る、おとしい.れる Onyomi: カン Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 陥る (おちい.る), 陥れる (おとしい.れる)
"hole Details Story Dictionary 穴 hole Heisig's House . . . eight. * As a primitive, this kanji uses an alternate form: the primitive for eight is replaced with that for human legs. Koohii #1 A black hole is a ""House of Infinity"". Infinity is of course represented by a sideways ""8"", but here we have a Japanese ""8"" instead. Koohii #2 Billiards anyone? House rules here state that the first person to pot the eight ball into the hole wins the game. Primitives hole, house, eight 穴(あな): hole Kunyomi: あな Onyomi: ケツ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 穴 (あな)"	"hole 穴 画数5 1413 Details Story Dictionary 穴 hole Heisig's House . . . eight. * As a primitive, this kanji uses an alternate form: the primitive for eight is replaced with that for human legs. Koohii #1 A black hole is a ""House of Infinity"". Infinity is of course represented by a sideways ""8"", but here we have a Japanese ""8"" instead. Koohii #2 Billiards anyone? House rules here state that the first person to pot the eight ball into the hole wins the game. Primitives hole, house, eight 穴(あな): hole Kunyomi: あな Onyomi: ケツ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 穴 (あな)"
empty Details Story Dictionary 空 empty Heisig's Hole . . . craft. Koohii #1 The craft of creating a black hole is in creating an emptiness which can attract things. Koohii #2 Hole-craft is the way of making empty spaces, like the sky. Primitives empty, hole, house, human legs, craft 空き(あき): room, time to spare, emptiness, vacant 空間(あきま): vacancy, room for rent or lease 空ろ(うつろ): blank, cavity, hollow, empty (space) 大空(おおぞら): heaven, firmament, the sky 空腹(くうふく): hunger 上空(じょうくう): sky, the skies, high-altitude sky, upper air 空く(すく): be less crowded, open, become open, become empty 空しい(むなしい): vacant, futile, vain, void, empty, ineffective, lifeless 架空(かくう): aerial, overhead, fiction, fanciful 空(から): emptiness 空っぽ(からっぽ): empty, vacant, hollow 空想(くうそう): daydream, fantasy, fancy, vision 空中(くうちゅう): sky, air 航空(こうくう): aviation, flying 真空(しんくう): vacuum, hollow, empty 空く(あく): become vacant 空気(くうき): air 空港(くうこう): air port 空(そら): sky Kunyomi: そら、あ.く、あ.き、あ.ける、から、す.く、す.かす、むな.しい Onyomi: クウ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 空く (あ.く), 空ける (あ.ける), 空 (から), 空 (そら)	empty 空 画数8 1414 Details Story Dictionary 空 empty Heisig's Hole . . . craft. Koohii #1 The craft of creating a black hole is in creating an emptiness which can attract things. Koohii #2 Hole-craft is the way of making empty spaces, like the sky. Primitives empty, hole, house, human legs, craft 空き(あき): room, time to spare, emptiness, vacant 空間(あきま): vacancy, room for rent or lease 空ろ(うつろ): blank, cavity, hollow, empty (space) 大空(おおぞら): heaven, firmament, the sky 空腹(くうふく): hunger 上空(じょうくう): sky, the skies, high-altitude sky, upper air 空く(すく): be less crowded, open, become open, become empty 空しい(むなしい): vacant, futile, vain, void, empty, ineffective, lifeless 架空(かくう): aerial, overhead, fiction, fanciful 空(から): emptiness 空っぽ(からっぽ): empty, vacant, hollow 空想(くうそう): daydream, fantasy, fancy, vision 空中(くうちゅう): sky, air 航空(こうくう): aviation, flying 真空(しんくう): vacuum, hollow, empty 空く(あく): become vacant 空気(くうき): air 空港(くうこう): air port 空(そら): sky Kunyomi: そら、あ.く、あ.き、あ.ける、から、す.く、す.かす、むな.しい Onyomi: クウ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 空く (あ.く), 空ける (あ.ける), 空 (から), 空 (そら)
"withdraw Details Story Dictionary 控 withdraw Heisig's Fingers . . . empty. Koohii #1 With my fingers, I punch in my bank code and withdraw some money from my account. And now it´s empty again, as usual! Koohii #2 If you find yourself in a fight with a karate master with no weapons or martial art skills, just your empty fingers, you should withdraw because 空手 (karate=""empty hand"") is more powerful than 控 (=""empty fingers""). Primitives withdraw, finger, fingers, empty, sky, hole, house, human legs, craft 控除(こうじょ): subsidy, deduction 控室(ひかえしつ): waiting room 控える(ひかえる): to draw in, to hold back, to make notes, to be temperate in Kunyomi: ひか.える、ひか.え Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 控える (ひか.える)"	"withdraw 控 画数11 1415 Details Story Dictionary 控 withdraw Heisig's Fingers . . . empty. Koohii #1 With my fingers, I punch in my bank code and withdraw some money from my account. And now it´s empty again, as usual! Koohii #2 If you find yourself in a fight with a karate master with no weapons or martial art skills, just your empty fingers, you should withdraw because 空手 (karate=""empty hand"") is more powerful than 控 (=""empty fingers""). Primitives withdraw, finger, fingers, empty, sky, hole, house, human legs, craft 控除(こうじょ): subsidy, deduction 控室(ひかえしつ): waiting room 控える(ひかえる): to draw in, to hold back, to make notes, to be temperate in Kunyomi: ひか.える、ひか.え Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 控える (ひか.える)"
stab Details Story Dictionary 突 stab Heisig's Hole . . . St. Bernard dog. Koohii #1 When you stab something you often leave a big hole. Koohii #2 The police have recruited a special breed of St. Bernard that can lick the wounds of a stabbing victim. The bleeding will stop instantly, saving the victim´s life. One quirky side-effect, however, is that this treatment leaves behind a rather large hole... Primitives stab, hole, house, human legs, large, St. Bernard 突く(つつく): to thrust, to strike, to attack, to poke, to nudge, to pick at 突っ張る(つっぱる): to support, to become stiff, to become taut, to thrust (ones opponent), to stick to (ones opinion), to insist on 突如(とつじょ): suddenly, all of a sudden 突破(とっぱ): breaking through, breakthrough, penetration 煙突(えんとつ): chimney 衝突(しょうとつ): collision, conflict 突き当たり(つきあたり): end (e.g. of street) 突き当たる(つきあたる): run into, collide with 突く(つく): thrust, strike, attack, poke, nudge, pick at 突っ込む(つっこむ): thrust something into something, plunge into, go into deeply, meddle, interfere 突然(とつぜん): abruptly, suddenly, unexpectedly, all at once Kunyomi: つ.く Onyomi: トツ、カ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 突く (つ.く)	stab 突 画数8 1416 Details Story Dictionary 突 stab Heisig's Hole . . . St. Bernard dog. Koohii #1 When you stab something you often leave a big hole. Koohii #2 The police have recruited a special breed of St. Bernard that can lick the wounds of a stabbing victim. The bleeding will stop instantly, saving the victim´s life. One quirky side-effect, however, is that this treatment leaves behind a rather large hole... Primitives stab, hole, house, human legs, large, St. Bernard 突く(つつく): to thrust, to strike, to attack, to poke, to nudge, to pick at 突っ張る(つっぱる): to support, to become stiff, to become taut, to thrust (ones opponent), to stick to (ones opinion), to insist on 突如(とつじょ): suddenly, all of a sudden 突破(とっぱ): breaking through, breakthrough, penetration 煙突(えんとつ): chimney 衝突(しょうとつ): collision, conflict 突き当たり(つきあたり): end (e.g. of street) 突き当たる(つきあたる): run into, collide with 突く(つく): thrust, strike, attack, poke, nudge, pick at 突っ込む(つっこむ): thrust something into something, plunge into, go into deeply, meddle, interfere 突然(とつぜん): abruptly, suddenly, unexpectedly, all at once Kunyomi: つ.く Onyomi: トツ、カ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 突く (つ.く)
research Details Story Dictionary 究 research My Story [Hole {穴} + 9] I am researching the *holes* of *9* women to find the true one for me I am NOT watching gay porn!! I am, um, researching the *holes* of *nine* CUTE adult actors! Koohii #1 Most research scientists have 9 holes.....two nostrils, two ears, a mouth, and four eyes...... :-). Koohii #2 Scientiest are researching , and have already found nine black holes ! Primitives research, hole, house, human legs, nine, baseball 究極(きゅうきょく): ultimate, final, eventual 研究(けんきゅう): study, research 研究室(けんきゅうしつ): study (room) Kunyomi: きわ.める Onyomi: キュウ、ク Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 究める (きわ.める)	research 究 画数7 1417 Details Story Dictionary 究 research My Story [Hole {穴} + 9] I am researching the *holes* of *9* women to find the true one for me I am NOT watching gay porn!! I am, um, researching the *holes* of *nine* CUTE adult actors! Koohii #1 Most research scientists have 9 holes.....two nostrils, two ears, a mouth, and four eyes...... :-). Koohii #2 Scientiest are researching , and have already found nine black holes ! Primitives research, hole, house, human legs, nine, baseball 究極(きゅうきょく): ultimate, final, eventual 研究(けんきゅう): study, research 研究室(けんきゅうしつ): study (room) Kunyomi: きわ.める Onyomi: キュウ、ク Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 究める (きわ.める)
plug up Details Story Dictionary 窒 plug up Heisig's Hole . . . climax. Koohii #1 Sticking a plug up your hole will lead to stronger climaxes. Koohii #2 Here we have a Hole and Climax to mean PLUG UP. This is so butt-f**king easy, pun intended. If you PLUG UP her Hole, she will Climax. Primitives plug up, hole, house, human legs, climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground 窒息(ちっそく): suffocation Kunyomi: Onyomi: チツ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	plug up 窒 画数11 1418 Details Story Dictionary 窒 plug up Heisig's Hole . . . climax. Koohii #1 Sticking a plug up your hole will lead to stronger climaxes. Koohii #2 Here we have a Hole and Climax to mean PLUG UP. This is so butt-f**king easy, pun intended. If you PLUG UP her Hole, she will Climax. Primitives plug up, hole, house, human legs, climax, wall, one, ceiling, elbow, soil, dirt, ground 窒息(ちっそく): suffocation Kunyomi: Onyomi: チツ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"stealth Details Story Dictionary 窃 stealth Heisig's Hole . . . cut. Koohii #1 This more commonly means ""steal"", like how a thief cuts a hole to steal the jewels. Koohii #2 Stealth bombers cut holes through the enemy radar. Primitives stealth, hole, house, human legs, cut, seven, sword, dagger Kunyomi: ぬす.む、ひそ.か Onyomi: セツ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"stealth 窃 画数9 1419 Details Story Dictionary 窃 stealth Heisig's Hole . . . cut. Koohii #1 This more commonly means ""steal"", like how a thief cuts a hole to steal the jewels. Koohii #2 Stealth bombers cut holes through the enemy radar. Primitives stealth, hole, house, human legs, cut, seven, sword, dagger Kunyomi: ぬす.む、ひそ.か Onyomi: セツ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"cavern Details Story Dictionary 窟 cavern Heisig's Hole . . . yield. Koohii #1 After Osama blew a hole in NY, the counterreaction forced him to yield and retreat into caverns. Koohii #2 In ""The Empire Strikes Back"", the Milennium Falcon flies into a large hole, of what they think is a cavern, because they don´t want to yield to the forces of the Empire. Turns out it´s not a cavern at all, actually... Primitives cavern, hole, house, human legs, yield, flag, exit Kunyomi: いわや、いはや、あな Onyomi: クツ、コツ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"cavern 窟 画数13 1420 Details Story Dictionary 窟 cavern Heisig's Hole . . . yield. Koohii #1 After Osama blew a hole in NY, the counterreaction forced him to yield and retreat into caverns. Koohii #2 In ""The Empire Strikes Back"", the Milennium Falcon flies into a large hole, of what they think is a cavern, because they don´t want to yield to the forces of the Empire. Turns out it´s not a cavern at all, actually... Primitives cavern, hole, house, human legs, yield, flag, exit Kunyomi: いわや、いはや、あな Onyomi: クツ、コツ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
depression Details Story Dictionary 窪 depression Heisig's Hole . . . water . . . ivy. The depression referred to here is a sunken place in the ground, rather than in one's spirits. Koohii #1 A depression is a hole in the ground. Water naturally collects there which provides moisture for vines to grow. Koohii #2 The depression in the ground become a trap: the hole was filled with water and covered with ivy. Primitives depression, hole, house, human legs, water, water droplets, water pistol, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, soil2, dirt2, ground2 Kunyomi: くぼ.む、くぼ.み、くぼ.まる、くぼ Onyomi: ワ、ア Lesson: 35 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:	depression 窪 画数14 1421 Details Story Dictionary 窪 depression Heisig's Hole . . . water . . . ivy. The depression referred to here is a sunken place in the ground, rather than in one's spirits. Koohii #1 A depression is a hole in the ground. Water naturally collects there which provides moisture for vines to grow. Koohii #2 The depression in the ground become a trap: the hole was filled with water and covered with ivy. Primitives depression, hole, house, human legs, water, water droplets, water pistol, ivy, square jewel, soil, dirt, ground, soil2, dirt2, ground2 Kunyomi: くぼ.む、くぼ.み、くぼ.まる、くぼ Onyomi: ワ、ア Lesson: 35 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:
squeeze Details Story Dictionary 搾 squeeze Heisig's Fingers . . . hole . . . saw. Koohii #1 You have trouble squeezing your hand through the hole so you use a saw to enlarge it. Koohii #2 (Thanks DrJones) You squeeze the teats of the cow with your fingers but it´s your first try and you don´t have any milk come through the holes, so you take a saw and cut the teats to make bigger holes. Poor cow, this story squeezes my heart. Primitives squeeze, finger, fingers, tight, hole, house, human legs, saw Kunyomi: しぼ.る Onyomi: サク Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 搾る (しぼ.る)	squeeze 搾 画数13 1422 Details Story Dictionary 搾 squeeze Heisig's Fingers . . . hole . . . saw. Koohii #1 You have trouble squeezing your hand through the hole so you use a saw to enlarge it. Koohii #2 (Thanks DrJones) You squeeze the teats of the cow with your fingers but it´s your first try and you don´t have any milk come through the holes, so you take a saw and cut the teats to make bigger holes. Poor cow, this story squeezes my heart. Primitives squeeze, finger, fingers, tight, hole, house, human legs, saw Kunyomi: しぼ.る Onyomi: サク Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 搾る (しぼ.る)
kiln Details Story Dictionary 窯 kiln Heisig's Hole . . . sheep . . . oven fire. Koohii #1 Be sure to put a hole in that ceramic sheep before you put it over the fire. Otherwise, it´ll just explode in the kiln. (If you´ve never done ceramics before, it´s important that the object have a hole in it, or this really will happen.). Koohii #2 You put the sheep in the hole of the kiln and turn on the flames. Primitives kiln, hole, house, human legs, sheep, oven-fire, barbecue Kunyomi: かま Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 窯 (かま)	kiln 窯 画数15 1423 Details Story Dictionary 窯 kiln Heisig's Hole . . . sheep . . . oven fire. Koohii #1 Be sure to put a hole in that ceramic sheep before you put it over the fire. Otherwise, it´ll just explode in the kiln. (If you´ve never done ceramics before, it´s important that the object have a hole in it, or this really will happen.). Koohii #2 You put the sheep in the hole of the kiln and turn on the flames. Primitives kiln, hole, house, human legs, sheep, oven-fire, barbecue Kunyomi: かま Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 窯 (かま)
hard up Details Story Dictionary 窮 hard up Heisig's Hole . . . somebody . . . bow. Koohii #1 Hard up = nothing but your body, living in a hole, with just a bow to hunt for your food. Koohii #2 Somebody so hard up for cash, the volunteered to explore a black hole with nothing but a bow. Primitives hard up, hole, house, human legs, somebody, nose, bow 窮屈(きゅうくつ): narrow, tight, stiff, rigid, uneasy, formal, constrained 窮乏(きゅうぼう): poverty Kunyomi: きわ.める、きわ.まる、きわ.まり、きわ.み Onyomi: キュウ、キョウ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 窮まる (きわ.まる), 窮める (きわ.める)	hard up 窮 画数15 1424 Details Story Dictionary 窮 hard up Heisig's Hole . . . somebody . . . bow. Koohii #1 Hard up = nothing but your body, living in a hole, with just a bow to hunt for your food. Koohii #2 Somebody so hard up for cash, the volunteered to explore a black hole with nothing but a bow. Primitives hard up, hole, house, human legs, somebody, nose, bow 窮屈(きゅうくつ): narrow, tight, stiff, rigid, uneasy, formal, constrained 窮乏(きゅうぼう): poverty Kunyomi: きわ.める、きわ.まる、きわ.まり、きわ.み Onyomi: キュウ、キョウ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 窮まる (きわ.まる), 窮める (きわ.める)
"grope / look for Details Story Dictionary 探 grope / look for My Story *My nigga MO* #looked# everywhere for his virginity, he checked underneath *the table* and under the *trees*, but he couldnt find it Koohii #1 A pictograph of a japanese schoolgirl getting groped by perverts on the train. The fingers of course, a crown (her too short skirt) and her legs below (which to be honest are pretty thick like tree trunks). Koohii #2 Note: The combination ""crown +human legs"" appears seven times in Heisig. In four cases (nos. 323, 1327, 1328, 2920) the crown is above the human legs, and in the other three cases (1888, 2472, 2679) one leg passes through the crown. The naming is inconsistent, so I call the first pattern ""Miss World"" (who is wearing a crown she won due to her attractive human legs) and the second ""garter"" (one human leg passes through the crown and wears it as a garter). Primitives grope, finger, fingers, paper punch, Miss World, hole, house, human legs, tree, wood 探検(たんけん): exploration, expedition 探る(さぐる): search, look for, sound out 探す(さがす): search for, look for Kunyomi: さぐ.る、さが.す Onyomi: タン Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 探す (さが.す), 探る (さぐ.る)"	"grope / look for 探 画数11 1425 Details Story Dictionary 探 grope / look for My Story *My nigga MO* #looked# everywhere for his virginity, he checked underneath *the table* and under the *trees*, but he couldnt find it Koohii #1 A pictograph of a japanese schoolgirl getting groped by perverts on the train. The fingers of course, a crown (her too short skirt) and her legs below (which to be honest are pretty thick like tree trunks). Koohii #2 Note: The combination ""crown +human legs"" appears seven times in Heisig. In four cases (nos. 323, 1327, 1328, 2920) the crown is above the human legs, and in the other three cases (1888, 2472, 2679) one leg passes through the crown. The naming is inconsistent, so I call the first pattern ""Miss World"" (who is wearing a crown she won due to her attractive human legs) and the second ""garter"" (one human leg passes through the crown and wears it as a garter). Primitives grope, finger, fingers, paper punch, Miss World, hole, house, human legs, tree, wood 探検(たんけん): exploration, expedition 探る(さぐる): search, look for, sound out 探す(さがす): search for, look for Kunyomi: さぐ.る、さが.す Onyomi: タン Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 探す (さが.す), 探る (さぐ.る)"
"deep Details Story Dictionary 深 deep Heisig's Water . . . paper punch . . . tree. Koohii #1 If the groper´s ""tree"" goes up the girl´s miniskirt too deep, he´ll ejaculate fluid. (Sorry it´s kinda coarse but it works.). Koohii #2 Thrown in deep water, the Japanese School girl tries to reach a floating tree to save herself. Primitives deep, water, water droplets, water pistol, paper punch, Miss World, hole, house, human legs, tree, wood 情け深い(なさけぶかい): tender-hearted, compassionate 深める(ふかめる): to deepen, to heighten, to intensify 欲深い(よくふかい): greedy 深夜(しんや): late at night 深刻(しんこく): serious 深まる(ふかまる): deepen, heighten, intensify 深い(ふかい): deep Kunyomi: ふか.い、-ぶか.い、ふか.まる、ふか.める、み- Onyomi: シン Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 深い (ふか.い), 深まる (ふか.まる), 深める (ふか.める)"	"deep 深 画数11 1426 Details Story Dictionary 深 deep Heisig's Water . . . paper punch . . . tree. Koohii #1 If the groper´s ""tree"" goes up the girl´s miniskirt too deep, he´ll ejaculate fluid. (Sorry it´s kinda coarse but it works.). Koohii #2 Thrown in deep water, the Japanese School girl tries to reach a floating tree to save herself. Primitives deep, water, water droplets, water pistol, paper punch, Miss World, hole, house, human legs, tree, wood 情け深い(なさけぶかい): tender-hearted, compassionate 深める(ふかめる): to deepen, to heighten, to intensify 欲深い(よくふかい): greedy 深夜(しんや): late at night 深刻(しんこく): serious 深まる(ふかまる): deepen, heighten, intensify 深い(ふかい): deep Kunyomi: ふか.い、-ぶか.い、ふか.まる、ふか.める、み- Onyomi: シン Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 深い (ふか.い), 深まる (ふか.まる), 深める (ふか.める)"
hill Details Story Dictionary 丘 hill Heisig's Since this supposedly pictographic representation of a hill looks like anything but, picture a row of axes driven into the ground up to their heads, and see if that doesn't present a more memorable image of hill - at least a riskier one sliding down! Koohii #1 Excalibur is the sword planted in a rock. Lesser known AXCAHILLBUR is the axe planted on top of a hill. Koohii #2 At Capitol Hill proposals get axed on the floor. Primitives hill, axe, one, floor 丘陵(きゅうりょう): hill 丘(おか): hill Kunyomi: おか Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 丘 (おか)	hill 丘 画数5 1427 Details Story Dictionary 丘 hill Heisig's Since this supposedly pictographic representation of a hill looks like anything but, picture a row of axes driven into the ground up to their heads, and see if that doesn't present a more memorable image of hill - at least a riskier one sliding down! Koohii #1 Excalibur is the sword planted in a rock. Lesser known AXCAHILLBUR is the axe planted on top of a hill. Koohii #2 At Capitol Hill proposals get axed on the floor. Primitives hill, axe, one, floor 丘陵(きゅうりょう): hill 丘(おか): hill Kunyomi: おか Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 丘 (おか)
Point Details Story Dictionary 岳 Point Heisig's Think of the key word as referring to proper names of mountains, but do not confuse with mountain pass (Frame 835). The elements are: hill . . . mountain. Koohii #1 A point is a extra little hill at the top of a mountain. We´ll call it ´Fireman´s Point´. Koohii #2 This actually means a high mountain. So, to cater to the keyword, it´s surely obvious (ahem) that if something gets such a fine title as Point, it must be more magnificent than the average mountain. It´s as if there was a hill on top of an average mountain, adding to its height. Primitives point, hill, axe, one, floor, mountain 山岳(さんがく): mountains Kunyomi: たけ Onyomi: ガク Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 岳 (たけ)	Point 岳 画数8 1428 Details Story Dictionary 岳 Point Heisig's Think of the key word as referring to proper names of mountains, but do not confuse with mountain pass (Frame 835). The elements are: hill . . . mountain. Koohii #1 A point is a extra little hill at the top of a mountain. We´ll call it ´Fireman´s Point´. Koohii #2 This actually means a high mountain. So, to cater to the keyword, it´s surely obvious (ahem) that if something gets such a fine title as Point, it must be more magnificent than the average mountain. It´s as if there was a hill on top of an average mountain, adding to its height. Primitives point, hill, axe, one, floor, mountain 山岳(さんがく): mountains Kunyomi: たけ Onyomi: ガク Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 岳 (たけ)
soldier Details Story Dictionary 兵 soldier Heisig's Hill . . . animal legs. Koohii #1 Listen up soldiers! We´re going to take that hill. You are no longer men with human legs. You are voracious animals, with animal legs! Got it? Animal legs! Now take that hill! Koohii #2 The hill is so steep that you almost have to have animal legs to walk on it. However, the soldiers have no problem because they´ve been trained to march there. Primitives soldier, hill, axe, one, floor, animal legs, eight 兵器(へいき): arms, weapons, ordinance 兵士(へいし): soldier 兵隊(へいたい): soldier, sailor Kunyomi: つわもの Onyomi: ヘイ、ヒョウ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 兵器 (へいき), 兵隊 (へいたい), 撤兵 (てっぺい)	soldier 兵 画数7 1429 Details Story Dictionary 兵 soldier Heisig's Hill . . . animal legs. Koohii #1 Listen up soldiers! We´re going to take that hill. You are no longer men with human legs. You are voracious animals, with animal legs! Got it? Animal legs! Now take that hill! Koohii #2 The hill is so steep that you almost have to have animal legs to walk on it. However, the soldiers have no problem because they´ve been trained to march there. Primitives soldier, hill, axe, one, floor, animal legs, eight 兵器(へいき): arms, weapons, ordinance 兵士(へいし): soldier 兵隊(へいたい): soldier, sailor Kunyomi: つわもの Onyomi: ヘイ、ヒョウ Lesson: 35 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 兵器 (へいき), 兵隊 (へいたい), 撤兵 (てっぺい)
"seacoast Details Story Dictionary 浜 seacoast Heisig's Water . . . soldier. Koohii #1 Seacoast -> Coast Guard -> ""water soldiers"" lined up on the seacoast defending our shores. Koohii #2 Imagine Normandy after the strikes on the beach. The water of the entire seacoast dyed red with the blood of thousands of soldiers. Primitives seacoast, water, water droplets, water pistol, soldier, hill, axe, one, floor, animal legs, eight 浜(はま): beach, seashore 浜辺(はまべ): beach, foreshore Kunyomi: はま Onyomi: ヒン Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 浜 (はま)"	"seacoast 浜 画数10 1430 Details Story Dictionary 浜 seacoast Heisig's Water . . . soldier. Koohii #1 Seacoast -> Coast Guard -> ""water soldiers"" lined up on the seacoast defending our shores. Koohii #2 Imagine Normandy after the strikes on the beach. The water of the entire seacoast dyed red with the blood of thousands of soldiers. Primitives seacoast, water, water droplets, water pistol, soldier, hill, axe, one, floor, animal legs, eight 浜(はま): beach, seashore 浜辺(はまべ): beach, foreshore Kunyomi: はま Onyomi: ヒン Lesson: 35 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 浜 (はま)"
thread Details Story Dictionary 糸 thread Heisig's Remember when your granny used to ask you to bend your arms at the elbows and hold them out so that she could use them like a rack to hold a skein of string or yarn (here thread) while she rolled it up into a little ball? Now can you see the two elbows (with the second stroke doubling up) at the top, and the character for little below? Koohii #1 I also went with Spiderman. However, in the cases where this primitive appears under other primitives, as opposed to on the left (I think there are ~5 times in this chapter) I´ve opted to use a similar character: Venom. This helps keep the positioning clear, especially on such characters as dainty (#1363) and accumulate (#1364). Koohii #2 You´ll be seeing this one a lot. Seriously. Primitives thread, spiderman 毛糸(けいと): knitting wool 糸(いと): thread Kunyomi: いと Onyomi: シ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 糸 (いと)	thread 糸 画数6 1431 Details Story Dictionary 糸 thread Heisig's Remember when your granny used to ask you to bend your arms at the elbows and hold them out so that she could use them like a rack to hold a skein of string or yarn (here thread) while she rolled it up into a little ball? Now can you see the two elbows (with the second stroke doubling up) at the top, and the character for little below? Koohii #1 I also went with Spiderman. However, in the cases where this primitive appears under other primitives, as opposed to on the left (I think there are ~5 times in this chapter) I´ve opted to use a similar character: Venom. This helps keep the positioning clear, especially on such characters as dainty (#1363) and accumulate (#1364). Koohii #2 You´ll be seeing this one a lot. Seriously. Primitives thread, spiderman 毛糸(けいと): knitting wool 糸(いと): thread Kunyomi: いと Onyomi: シ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 糸 (いと)
weave Details Story Dictionary 織 weave Heisig's Thread . . . kazoo. Koohii #1 Spiderman weaves his way through the skyline while listening to his theme song on his ipod. It is played, of course, by kazoos. Koohii #2 Play the kazoo magically and the thread will weave itself. Primitives weave, thread, spiderman, kazoo, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, fiesta 織(おり): weave, weaving, woven item 織物(おりもの): textile, fabric 織る(おる): to weave 組織(そしき): organization, structure, construction, tissue, system Kunyomi: お.る、お.り、おり、-おり、-お.り Onyomi: ショク、シキ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 織機 (しょっき), 染織 (せんしょく), 紡織 (ぼうしょく), 織る (お.る)	weave 織 画数18 1432 Details Story Dictionary 織 weave Heisig's Thread . . . kazoo. Koohii #1 Spiderman weaves his way through the skyline while listening to his theme song on his ipod. It is played, of course, by kazoos. Koohii #2 Play the kazoo magically and the thread will weave itself. Primitives weave, thread, spiderman, kazoo, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, fiesta 織(おり): weave, weaving, woven item 織物(おりもの): textile, fabric 織る(おる): to weave 組織(そしき): organization, structure, construction, tissue, system Kunyomi: お.る、お.り、おり、-おり、-お.り Onyomi: ショク、シキ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 織機 (しょっき), 染織 (せんしょく), 紡織 (ぼうしょく), 織る (お.る)
darning Details Story Dictionary 繕 darning Heisig's Thread . . . virtuous. Koohii #1 After a day being virtuouos and keeping the city safe, Spiderman´s outfit is in need of some repair. Luckily, as he can shoot out threads darning is very easy for him to do. Koohii #2 Darning is too obscure a word for me, I prefer to just think of it as repair. And obviously, repairing someones broken cloth things is a virtuous thing to do, and you need thread to do it. Primitives darning, thread, spiderman, virtuous, sheep, horns, mouth 繕う(つくろう): to mend, to repair, to fix, to patch up, to darn, to tidy up, to adjust, to trim 修繕(しゅうぜん): repair, mending Kunyomi: つくろ.う Onyomi: ゼン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 繕う (つくろ.う)	darning 繕 画数18 1433 Details Story Dictionary 繕 darning Heisig's Thread . . . virtuous. Koohii #1 After a day being virtuouos and keeping the city safe, Spiderman´s outfit is in need of some repair. Luckily, as he can shoot out threads darning is very easy for him to do. Koohii #2 Darning is too obscure a word for me, I prefer to just think of it as repair. And obviously, repairing someones broken cloth things is a virtuous thing to do, and you need thread to do it. Primitives darning, thread, spiderman, virtuous, sheep, horns, mouth 繕う(つくろう): to mend, to repair, to fix, to patch up, to darn, to tidy up, to adjust, to trim 修繕(しゅうぜん): repair, mending Kunyomi: つくろ.う Onyomi: ゼン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 繕う (つくろ.う)
shrink Details Story Dictionary 縮 shrink Heisig's Thread . . . inn. Koohii #1 After spending the night at an inn, spider man discovered to his dismay that his costume had shrunk in the wash, and no longer fit! Koohii #2 Don´t let the Inn wash your threads, they will shrink them! Primitives shrink, thread, spiderman, inn, house, person, hundred, one, ceiling, white, dove 短縮(たんしゅく): shortening, abbreviation, reduction 縮まる(ちぢまる): to be shortened, to be contracted, to shrink 圧縮(あっしゅく): compression, condensation, pressure 恐縮(きょうしゅく): shame, very kind of you, sorry to trouble 縮小(しゅくしょう): reduction, curtailment 縮む(ちぢむ): shrink, be contracted 縮める(ちぢめる): shorten, reduce, boil down, shrink 縮れる(ちぢれる): be wavy, be curled Kunyomi: ちぢ.む、ちぢ.まる、ちぢ.める、ちぢ.れる、ちぢ.らす Onyomi: シュク Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 縮まる (ちぢ.まる), 縮む (ちぢ.む), 縮める (ちぢ.める), 縮らす (ちぢ.らす), 縮れる (ちぢ.れる)	shrink 縮 画数17 1434 Details Story Dictionary 縮 shrink Heisig's Thread . . . inn. Koohii #1 After spending the night at an inn, spider man discovered to his dismay that his costume had shrunk in the wash, and no longer fit! Koohii #2 Don´t let the Inn wash your threads, they will shrink them! Primitives shrink, thread, spiderman, inn, house, person, hundred, one, ceiling, white, dove 短縮(たんしゅく): shortening, abbreviation, reduction 縮まる(ちぢまる): to be shortened, to be contracted, to shrink 圧縮(あっしゅく): compression, condensation, pressure 恐縮(きょうしゅく): shame, very kind of you, sorry to trouble 縮小(しゅくしょう): reduction, curtailment 縮む(ちぢむ): shrink, be contracted 縮める(ちぢめる): shorten, reduce, boil down, shrink 縮れる(ちぢれる): be wavy, be curled Kunyomi: ちぢ.む、ちぢ.まる、ちぢ.める、ちぢ.れる、ちぢ.らす Onyomi: シュク Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 縮まる (ちぢ.まる), 縮む (ちぢ.む), 縮める (ちぢ.める), 縮らす (ちぢ.らす), 縮れる (ちぢ.れる)
luxuriant Details Story Dictionary 繁 luxuriant Heisig's Cleverness . . . thread. Koohii #1 Important: Luxuriant does NOT mean luxurious, as the other stories indicate. Definition: abundant or lush in growth, as vegetation. When Venom realized he couldn´t beat Spider-Man in a fair fight, he showed his cleverness by spraying venom all over Spider-Man´s luxuriant garden. Koohii #2 Venom is covered in a luxuriant and surprisingly clever symbiotic suit, but it´s also the taskmaster for his every evil act. Primitives luxuriant, cleverness, reclining, lying down, mother, breasts, taskmaster, thread, spiderman 繁栄(はんえい): prospering, prosperity, thriving, flourishing 繁盛(はんじょう): prosperity, flourishing, thriving 繁殖(はんしょく): breed, multiply, increase, propagation 頻繁(ひんぱん): frequency Kunyomi: しげ.る、しげ.く Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	luxuriant 繁 画数16 1435 Details Story Dictionary 繁 luxuriant Heisig's Cleverness . . . thread. Koohii #1 Important: Luxuriant does NOT mean luxurious, as the other stories indicate. Definition: abundant or lush in growth, as vegetation. When Venom realized he couldn´t beat Spider-Man in a fair fight, he showed his cleverness by spraying venom all over Spider-Man´s luxuriant garden. Koohii #2 Venom is covered in a luxuriant and surprisingly clever symbiotic suit, but it´s also the taskmaster for his every evil act. Primitives luxuriant, cleverness, reclining, lying down, mother, breasts, taskmaster, thread, spiderman 繁栄(はんえい): prospering, prosperity, thriving, flourishing 繁盛(はんじょう): prosperity, flourishing, thriving 繁殖(はんしょく): breed, multiply, increase, propagation 頻繁(ひんぱん): frequency Kunyomi: しげ.る、しげ.く Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
vertical Details Story Dictionary 縦 vertical My Story [String + accompany {従}] When *Spider-man* does his amazing vertical wall climbing, a throng of photographers *accompanies* him to get a good shot of the action. Koohii #1 When Spider-man does his amazing vertical wall climbing, a throng of photographers accompanies him to get a good shot of the action. Koohii #2 True vertical can be found by hanging a plumb line - a thread accompanied by a weight. Primitives vertical, thread, spiderman, accompany, Nelson, column, going, line, horns, mend 操縦(そうじゅう): management, handling, control, manipulation 縦(たて): length, height Kunyomi: たて Onyomi: ジュウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 縦 (たて)	vertical 縦 画数16 1436 Details Story Dictionary 縦 vertical My Story [String + accompany {従}] When *Spider-man* does his amazing vertical wall climbing, a throng of photographers *accompanies* him to get a good shot of the action. Koohii #1 When Spider-man does his amazing vertical wall climbing, a throng of photographers accompanies him to get a good shot of the action. Koohii #2 True vertical can be found by hanging a plumb line - a thread accompanied by a weight. Primitives vertical, thread, spiderman, accompany, Nelson, column, going, line, horns, mend 操縦(そうじゅう): management, handling, control, manipulation 縦(たて): length, height Kunyomi: たて Onyomi: ジュウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 縦 (たて)
fine Details Story Dictionary 緻 fine Heisig's The key word should be taken to mean minute, detailed, or nuanced. Its primitive elements are: thread . . . doth. Koohii #1 THREAD, DOTH. fine THREADS DOTH make fine cloth. Think of a Shakespearean character stating this to someone else. Picture fine threads on one side of the picture and an aftershot of a fine cloth. Koohii #2 fine: If the thread doth fit through the eye of the needle, it is fine thread indeed. Kunyomi: こまか.い Onyomi: チ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	fine 緻 画数16 1437 Details Story Dictionary 緻 fine Heisig's The key word should be taken to mean minute, detailed, or nuanced. Its primitive elements are: thread . . . doth. Koohii #1 THREAD, DOTH. fine THREADS DOTH make fine cloth. Think of a Shakespearean character stating this to someone else. Picture fine threads on one side of the picture and an aftershot of a fine cloth. Koohii #2 fine: If the thread doth fit through the eye of the needle, it is fine thread indeed. Kunyomi: こまか.い Onyomi: チ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
line Details Story Dictionary 線 line My Story Japan's train lines are like *threads* that *spring* from Tokyo station \t SEND a line made of string from here to the spring. (it is some engineers at work) 温泉 Koohii #1 This kanji is used for train lines. Spiderman does a hot spring tour of Japan using the train lines. You can see the Spidey costume hanging on the washing line as he enjoys the onsen. Koohii #2 Japan´s train lines are like threads that spring from Tokyo station. Primitives line, thread, spiderman, spring, white, dove, water 沿線(えんせん): along railway line 幹線(かんせん): main line, trunk line 三味線(さみせん): three-stringed Japanese guitar, shamisen 点線(てんせん): dotted line, perforated line 電線(でんせん): electric line 無線(むせん): wireless, radio 下線(かせん): underline 曲線(きょくせん): curve 光線(こうせん): beam, light ray 新幹線(しんかんせん): bullet train 水平線(すいへいせん): horizon 線路(せんろ): line, track, roadbed 脱線(だっせん): derailment, digression 地平線(ちへいせん): horizon 直線(ちょくせん): straight line 内線(ないせん): phone extension, indoor wiring, inner line 線(せん): line Kunyomi: すじ Onyomi: セン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	line 線 画数15 1438 Details Story Dictionary 線 line My Story Japan's train lines are like *threads* that *spring* from Tokyo station \t SEND a line made of string from here to the spring. (it is some engineers at work) 温泉 Koohii #1 This kanji is used for train lines. Spiderman does a hot spring tour of Japan using the train lines. You can see the Spidey costume hanging on the washing line as he enjoys the onsen. Koohii #2 Japan´s train lines are like threads that spring from Tokyo station. Primitives line, thread, spiderman, spring, white, dove, water 沿線(えんせん): along railway line 幹線(かんせん): main line, trunk line 三味線(さみせん): three-stringed Japanese guitar, shamisen 点線(てんせん): dotted line, perforated line 電線(でんせん): electric line 無線(むせん): wireless, radio 下線(かせん): underline 曲線(きょくせん): curve 光線(こうせん): beam, light ray 新幹線(しんかんせん): bullet train 水平線(すいへいせん): horizon 線路(せんろ): line, track, roadbed 脱線(だっせん): derailment, digression 地平線(ちへいせん): horizon 直線(ちょくせん): straight line 内線(ないせん): phone extension, indoor wiring, inner line 線(せん): line Kunyomi: すじ Onyomi: セン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
come apart at the seams Details Story Dictionary 綻 come apart at the seams Heisig's Thread . . . determine. Koohii #1 Even though his costume is coming apart at the seams as he chases the bad guys, Spiderman is still determined to catch them. Koohii #2 Spiderman´s costume has come apart at the seams and here he is, mending it in his house, determined to make it stronger than before. Primitives come apart at the seams, thread, spiderman, determine, determined, house, mend 綻びる(ほころびる): to come apart at the seams, to begin to open, to smile broadly Kunyomi: ほころ.びる Onyomi: タン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	come apart at the seams 綻 画数14 1439 Details Story Dictionary 綻 come apart at the seams Heisig's Thread . . . determine. Koohii #1 Even though his costume is coming apart at the seams as he chases the bad guys, Spiderman is still determined to catch them. Koohii #2 Spiderman´s costume has come apart at the seams and here he is, mending it in his house, determined to make it stronger than before. Primitives come apart at the seams, thread, spiderman, determine, determined, house, mend 綻びる(ほころびる): to come apart at the seams, to begin to open, to smile broadly Kunyomi: ほころ.びる Onyomi: タン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
tighten Details Story Dictionary 締 tighten My Story [String + Sovereign {帝}] Koohii #1 The sovereign appears to be ruling, but in reality someone behind him (for instance his wife) has a thread around his throat, and if he dares to make a decision she doesn´t like, she starts pulling the thread and tightens it around his throat. Koohii #2 (astridtops) Spiderman managed to get behind the sovereign. (pick your favourite nowadays country ruler who isn´t doing a good job). Spidey has tightend a web around the sovereing´s throat. As long as the sovereign says what spidey whispers, he will be fine. Sovereign yelping : ´ we will draw are troops back! and we will spend more money on healthcare, schools and less on wars!´ Spidey whispering: ´ If you continue at this pace, you might be doing good things AND the people will like you.´. Primitives tighten, thread, spiderman, sovereign, vase, stand up, apron, crown, towel 締め切り(しめきり): closing, cut-off, end, deadline, Closed, No Entrance 戸締り(とじまり): closing up, fastening the doors 取り締まり(とりしまり): control, management, supervision 取り締まる(とりしまる): to manage, to control, to supervise 締切(しめきり): closing, cut-off, end, deadline, Closed, No Entrance 締め切る(しめきる): shut up 締める(しめる): to tie, fasten Kunyomi: し.まる、し.まり、し.める、-し.め、-じ.め Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 締まる (し.まる), 締める (し.める)	tighten 締 画数15 1440 Details Story Dictionary 締 tighten My Story [String + Sovereign {帝}] Koohii #1 The sovereign appears to be ruling, but in reality someone behind him (for instance his wife) has a thread around his throat, and if he dares to make a decision she doesn´t like, she starts pulling the thread and tightens it around his throat. Koohii #2 (astridtops) Spiderman managed to get behind the sovereign. (pick your favourite nowadays country ruler who isn´t doing a good job). Spidey has tightend a web around the sovereing´s throat. As long as the sovereign says what spidey whispers, he will be fine. Sovereign yelping : ´ we will draw are troops back! and we will spend more money on healthcare, schools and less on wars!´ Spidey whispering: ´ If you continue at this pace, you might be doing good things AND the people will like you.´. Primitives tighten, thread, spiderman, sovereign, vase, stand up, apron, crown, towel 締め切り(しめきり): closing, cut-off, end, deadline, Closed, No Entrance 戸締り(とじまり): closing up, fastening the doors 取り締まり(とりしまり): control, management, supervision 取り締まる(とりしまる): to manage, to control, to supervise 締切(しめきり): closing, cut-off, end, deadline, Closed, No Entrance 締め切る(しめきる): shut up 締める(しめる): to tie, fasten Kunyomi: し.まる、し.まり、し.める、-し.め、-じ.め Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 締まる (し.まる), 締める (し.める)
fiber Details Story Dictionary 維 fiber Heisig's Thread . . . turkey. Koohii #1 Hey, Spidey! Eat that turkey if you want, but make sure you eat some fibers: you want spidey threads, don´t ya? Koohii #2 If you want to increase your fiber intake, just leave on those threads that are used to sew up the stuffed turkey and eat them too. Primitives fiber, thread, spiderman, turkey 繊維(せんい): fibre, fiber, textile 維持(いじ): maintenance, preservation Kunyomi: Onyomi: イ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	fiber 維 画数14 1441 Details Story Dictionary 維 fiber Heisig's Thread . . . turkey. Koohii #1 Hey, Spidey! Eat that turkey if you want, but make sure you eat some fibers: you want spidey threads, don´t ya? Koohii #2 If you want to increase your fiber intake, just leave on those threads that are used to sew up the stuffed turkey and eat them too. Primitives fiber, thread, spiderman, turkey 繊維(せんい): fibre, fiber, textile 維持(いじ): maintenance, preservation Kunyomi: Onyomi: イ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"gauze Details Story Dictionary 羅 gauze Heisig's Eye . . . fiber. Koohii #1 Lots of girls in Japan wear gauze patches over one eye made of course white fibers. They think it is cute, and I must admit, I have come to think so too. Koohii #2 Rocky won the match but left with a nasty eye injury, and needs some gauze for it. I use a modified version of the Rocky theme song to remember this one -- ""the eye and the fiber"". Primitives gauze, eye, cross-eyed, net, fibre, thread, spiderman, turkey Kunyomi: うすもの Onyomi: ラ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"gauze 羅 画数19 1442 Details Story Dictionary 羅 gauze Heisig's Eye . . . fiber. Koohii #1 Lots of girls in Japan wear gauze patches over one eye made of course white fibers. They think it is cute, and I must admit, I have come to think so too. Koohii #2 Rocky won the match but left with a nasty eye injury, and needs some gauze for it. I use a modified version of the Rocky theme song to remember this one -- ""the eye and the fiber"". Primitives gauze, eye, cross-eyed, net, fibre, thread, spiderman, turkey Kunyomi: うすもの Onyomi: ラ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
practice Details Story Dictionary 練 practice My Story [String + east] Spider-Man practices Eastern martial arts. Koohii #1 You practice your Japanese skills in a discussion thread with lots of people from the Far East (since many of the people who are interested in studying Japanese are Asian). Koohii #2 Spidey stays on the east side of the city to practice. The West Side is too dangerous. Primitives practice, thread, spiderman, east, tree, wood, sun, day 練る(ねる): to knead, to work over, to polish up 未練(みれん): lingering affection, attachment, regret(s), reluctance 訓練(くんれん): practice, training 練習(れんしゅう): practice Kunyomi: ね.る、ね.り Onyomi: レン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 練る (ね.る)	practice 練 画数14 1443 Details Story Dictionary 練 practice My Story [String + east] Spider-Man practices Eastern martial arts. Koohii #1 You practice your Japanese skills in a discussion thread with lots of people from the Far East (since many of the people who are interested in studying Japanese are Asian). Koohii #2 Spidey stays on the east side of the city to practice. The West Side is too dangerous. Primitives practice, thread, spiderman, east, tree, wood, sun, day 練る(ねる): to knead, to work over, to polish up 未練(みれん): lingering affection, attachment, regret(s), reluctance 訓練(くんれん): practice, training 練習(れんしゅう): practice Kunyomi: ね.る、ね.り Onyomi: レン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 練る (ね.る)
thong Details Story Dictionary 緒 thong Heisig's Thread . . . puppet. Although we usually think of a thong as coming at the end of a piece of string, this character's meaning allows for it to come at the beginning as well. Koohii #1 Spiderman has a secret fetish, he likes nothing better than to dress his lovedoll in a thong. Wierd, eh! Koohii #2 A thread is just the right size for a puppets thong. Primitives thong, thread, spiderman, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day 情緒(じょうしょ): emotion, feeling 一緒(いっしょ): together, meeting, company Kunyomi: お、いとぐち Onyomi: ショ、チョ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 緒戦 (しょせん), 由緒 (ゆいしょ), 端緒 (たんしょ), 緒 (お)	thong 緒 画数14 1444 Details Story Dictionary 緒 thong Heisig's Thread . . . puppet. Although we usually think of a thong as coming at the end of a piece of string, this character's meaning allows for it to come at the beginning as well. Koohii #1 Spiderman has a secret fetish, he likes nothing better than to dress his lovedoll in a thong. Wierd, eh! Koohii #2 A thread is just the right size for a puppets thong. Primitives thong, thread, spiderman, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day 情緒(じょうしょ): emotion, feeling 一緒(いっしょ): together, meeting, company Kunyomi: お、いとぐち Onyomi: ショ、チョ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 緒戦 (しょせん), 由緒 (ゆいしょ), 端緒 (たんしょ), 緒 (お)
continue Details Story Dictionary 続 continue My Story This *thread* (reddit thread) will continue to *sell* porn to people 続ける 続く 続き Koohii #1 If you attach strings to the things you sell, you will be able to continue making profit from them even after the fact. Koohii #2 Even though Peter Parker has become Spiderman, he continues to sell pictures that he takes as a photographer. Primitives continue, thread, spiderman, sell, samurai, crown, human legs 持続(じぞく): continuation 接続詞(せつぞくし): conjunction 存続(そんぞく): duration, continuance 継続(けいぞく): continuation 接続(せつぞく): connection, union, join, link, changing trains 相続(そうぞく): succession, inheritance 続々(ぞくぞく): successively, one after another 続き(つづき): sequel, continuation 手続き(てつづき): procedure, (legal) process, formalities 連続(れんぞく): serial, consecutive, continuity, occurring in succession, continuing 続く(つづく): continue (to be the case), keep up 続ける(つづける): continue, go on, follow Kunyomi: つづ.く、つづ.ける、つぐ.ない Onyomi: ゾク、ショク、コウ、キョウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 続く (つづ.く), 続ける (つづ.ける)	continue 続 画数13 1445 Details Story Dictionary 続 continue My Story This *thread* (reddit thread) will continue to *sell* porn to people 続ける 続く 続き Koohii #1 If you attach strings to the things you sell, you will be able to continue making profit from them even after the fact. Koohii #2 Even though Peter Parker has become Spiderman, he continues to sell pictures that he takes as a photographer. Primitives continue, thread, spiderman, sell, samurai, crown, human legs 持続(じぞく): continuation 接続詞(せつぞくし): conjunction 存続(そんぞく): duration, continuance 継続(けいぞく): continuation 接続(せつぞく): connection, union, join, link, changing trains 相続(そうぞく): succession, inheritance 続々(ぞくぞく): successively, one after another 続き(つづき): sequel, continuation 手続き(てつづき): procedure, (legal) process, formalities 連続(れんぞく): serial, consecutive, continuity, occurring in succession, continuing 続く(つづく): continue (to be the case), keep up 続ける(つづける): continue, go on, follow Kunyomi: つづ.く、つづ.ける、つぐ.ない Onyomi: ゾク、ショク、コウ、キョウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 続く (つづ.く), 続ける (つづ.ける)
picture Details Story Dictionary 絵 picture Heisig's Thread . . . meeting. Koohii #1 There´s never a picture of Spiderman meeting Peter Parker... I wonder why? Koohii #2 When all the Threads finally Meet the Picture will emerge... Primitives picture, thread, spiderman, meeting, one, wall, umbrella, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall 油絵(あぶらえ): oil painting 絵の具(えのぐ): colors, paints 絵画(かいが): picture 絵(え): picture, drawing, painting, sketch Kunyomi: Onyomi: カイ、エ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 絵画 (かいが)	picture 絵 画数12 1446 Details Story Dictionary 絵 picture Heisig's Thread . . . meeting. Koohii #1 There´s never a picture of Spiderman meeting Peter Parker... I wonder why? Koohii #2 When all the Threads finally Meet the Picture will emerge... Primitives picture, thread, spiderman, meeting, one, wall, umbrella, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall 油絵(あぶらえ): oil painting 絵の具(えのぐ): colors, paints 絵画(かいが): picture 絵(え): picture, drawing, painting, sketch Kunyomi: Onyomi: カイ、エ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 絵画 (かいが)
overall / tradition Details Story Dictionary 統 overall / tradition My Story (from eri401: This kanji means an overall link that shows key relationships - especially in the sense of who rules/governs. 系統 = けいとう = lineage; ancestry...... 伝統 = でんとう = tradition 統合 =とうごう =(1) unification (2) built-in) If you think of the *thread* stretching back through time, it shows your overall lineage, including what genetic traits have been *allotted* to you. Koohii #1 Spidey is alloted the biggest crime fighter jurisdiction in NYC because his OVERALL arrest record is the best. Koohii #2 According to Greek mythology, there´s a thread alloted to everyone, and its length is the overall determinant of your fate. Primitives overall, thread, spiderman, allot, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, human legs 統合(とうごう): integration, unification, synthesis 統治(とうじ): rule, reign, government, governing 統制(とうせい): regulation, control 統率(とうそつ): command, lead, generalship, leadership 系統(けいとう): system, family line, lineage, ancestry, geological formation 大統領(だいとうりょう): president, chief executive 伝統(でんとう): tradition, convention 統一(とういつ): unity, consolidation, uniformity, unification, compatible 統計(とうけい): statistics Kunyomi: す.べる、ほび.る Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 統べる (す.べる)	overall / tradition 統 画数12 1447 Details Story Dictionary 統 overall / tradition My Story (from eri401: This kanji means an overall link that shows key relationships - especially in the sense of who rules/governs. 系統 = けいとう = lineage; ancestry...... 伝統 = でんとう = tradition 統合 =とうごう =(1) unification (2) built-in) If you think of the *thread* stretching back through time, it shows your overall lineage, including what genetic traits have been *allotted* to you. Koohii #1 Spidey is alloted the biggest crime fighter jurisdiction in NYC because his OVERALL arrest record is the best. Koohii #2 According to Greek mythology, there´s a thread alloted to everyone, and its length is the overall determinant of your fate. Primitives overall, thread, spiderman, allot, infant, toddler, top hat, elbow, human legs 統合(とうごう): integration, unification, synthesis 統治(とうじ): rule, reign, government, governing 統制(とうせい): regulation, control 統率(とうそつ): command, lead, generalship, leadership 系統(けいとう): system, family line, lineage, ancestry, geological formation 大統領(だいとうりょう): president, chief executive 伝統(でんとう): tradition, convention 統一(とういつ): unity, consolidation, uniformity, unification, compatible 統計(とうけい): statistics Kunyomi: す.べる、ほび.る Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 統べる (す.べる)
strangle Details Story Dictionary 絞 strangle Heisig's Thread . . . mingle. Koohii #1 Spiderman hates going to parties and having to mingle. He wants to strangle someone after just a little small talk. Koohii #2 At the elegant cocktail party of VIP's, the spy, dressed like everyone else in formal evening wear, sneaks in and strangles his victim with a very thin wire - a thread. Afterwards he mingles in with the crowd and disappears. Primitives strangle, thread, spiderman, mingle, top hat, father 絞る(しぼる): press, wring, squeeze Kunyomi: しぼ.る、し.める、し.まる Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 絞まる (し.まる), 絞める (し.める), 絞る (しぼ.る)	strangle 絞 画数12 1448 Details Story Dictionary 絞 strangle Heisig's Thread . . . mingle. Koohii #1 Spiderman hates going to parties and having to mingle. He wants to strangle someone after just a little small talk. Koohii #2 At the elegant cocktail party of VIP's, the spy, dressed like everyone else in formal evening wear, sneaks in and strangles his victim with a very thin wire - a thread. Afterwards he mingles in with the crowd and disappears. Primitives strangle, thread, spiderman, mingle, top hat, father 絞る(しぼる): press, wring, squeeze Kunyomi: しぼ.る、し.める、し.まる Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 絞まる (し.まる), 絞める (し.める), 絞る (しぼ.る)
salary Details Story Dictionary 給 salary My Story [Thread/String + Fit {合}] The *thread*s you wear show if your salary is *fit* for this society Koohii #1 If your threads 糸 don't fit 合 right you're not going to be able to get a job with a decent salary. Koohii #2 Spiderman has so little free time in his schedule that he is unable to fit in a job with a good salary. Primitives salary, thread, spiderman, fit, meeting, umbrella, one, mouth 給仕(きゅうじ): office boy (girl), page, waiter 給食(きゅうしょく): school lunch, providing a meal 給う(たまう): to receive, to grant 配給(はいきゅう): distribution (eg. films rice) 補給(ほきゅう): supply, supplying, replenishment 給与(きゅうよ): allowance, grant, supply 給料(きゅうりょう): salary, wages 供給(きょうきゅう): supply, provisions 月給(げっきゅう): monthly salary 支給(しきゅう): payment, allowance Kunyomi: たま.う、たも.う、-たま.え Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	salary 給 画数12 1449 Details Story Dictionary 給 salary My Story [Thread/String + Fit {合}] The *thread*s you wear show if your salary is *fit* for this society Koohii #1 If your threads 糸 don't fit 合 right you're not going to be able to get a job with a decent salary. Koohii #2 Spiderman has so little free time in his schedule that he is unable to fit in a job with a good salary. Primitives salary, thread, spiderman, fit, meeting, umbrella, one, mouth 給仕(きゅうじ): office boy (girl), page, waiter 給食(きゅうしょく): school lunch, providing a meal 給う(たまう): to receive, to grant 配給(はいきゅう): distribution (eg. films rice) 補給(ほきゅう): supply, supplying, replenishment 給与(きゅうよ): allowance, grant, supply 給料(きゅうりょう): salary, wages 供給(きょうきゅう): supply, provisions 月給(げっきゅう): monthly salary 支給(しきゅう): payment, allowance Kunyomi: たま.う、たも.う、-たま.え Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
entwine Details Story Dictionary 絡 entwine My Story When threads become entwined, *each* *thread* is tangled to another. Koohii #1 When threads become entwined, each thread is tangled to another. Koohii #2 Spiderman entwines each villain in a tangled mess of spidersilk. Primitives entwine, thread, spiderman, each, walking legs, mouth 絡む(からむ): to entangle, to entwine 連絡(れんらく): junction, communication, connection, coordination Kunyomi: から.む、から.まる Onyomi: ラク Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 絡まる (から.まる), 絡む (から.む)	entwine 絡 画数12 1450 Details Story Dictionary 絡 entwine My Story When threads become entwined, *each* *thread* is tangled to another. Koohii #1 When threads become entwined, each thread is tangled to another. Koohii #2 Spiderman entwines each villain in a tangled mess of spidersilk. Primitives entwine, thread, spiderman, each, walking legs, mouth 絡む(からむ): to entangle, to entwine 連絡(れんらく): junction, communication, connection, coordination Kunyomi: から.む、から.まる Onyomi: ラク Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 絡まる (から.まる), 絡む (から.む)
"tie Details Story Dictionary 結 tie My Story [String + good omen {吉}] When my wife and I #tied# the knot (結婚・けっこん), Spider-Man {糸} was there to wish us *good luck*. Best. Wedding. Ever. Koohii #1 Ok, here, you have to think of the phrase ""TIE the knot"" , which means a wedding (this kanji is used in the marriage compound 結婚 けっこん ). Now, at US weddings, it ends with the couple driving away with cans being dragged behind the car. So here, think of SPIDERMAN, who will TIE the knot with Mary Jane. At his wedding, Spider THREAD attached (or TIED) to SPRAYCANS are being drug behind the limo as they drive off. Koohii #2 Spiderman and a fan have a competition to see who can tie up the most enemies fastest. Spidey´s using his webs and the fan is using an aerosol can of silly string. So far they are tied. Primitives tie, thread, spiderman, aerosol, samurai, mouth 結核(けっかく): tuberculosis, tubercule 結合(けつごう): combination, union 結晶(けっしょう): crystal, crystallization 結成(けっせい): formation 結束(けっそく): union, unity 妥結(だけつ): agreement 団結(だんけつ): unity, union, combination 結び(むすび): ending, conclusion, union 結び付き(むすびつき): connection, relation 結び付く(むすびつく): to be connected or related, to join together 結び付ける(むすびつける): to combine, to join, to tie on, to attach with a knot 結果(けっか): result, consequence 結局(けっきょく): after all, eventually 結論(けつろん): reason, sum up, conclude 結ぶ(むすぶ): tie, bind, link 結構(けっこう): splendid, nice, wonderful, delicious, sweet, construction, architecture, well enough, tolerably 結婚(けっこん): marriage Kunyomi: むす.ぶ、ゆ.う、ゆ.わえる Onyomi: ケツ、ケチ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 結ぶ (むす.ぶ), 結う (ゆ.う), 結わえる (ゆ.わえる)"	"tie 結 画数12 1451 Details Story Dictionary 結 tie My Story [String + good omen {吉}] When my wife and I #tied# the knot (結婚・けっこん), Spider-Man {糸} was there to wish us *good luck*. Best. Wedding. Ever. Koohii #1 Ok, here, you have to think of the phrase ""TIE the knot"" , which means a wedding (this kanji is used in the marriage compound 結婚 けっこん ). Now, at US weddings, it ends with the couple driving away with cans being dragged behind the car. So here, think of SPIDERMAN, who will TIE the knot with Mary Jane. At his wedding, Spider THREAD attached (or TIED) to SPRAYCANS are being drug behind the limo as they drive off. Koohii #2 Spiderman and a fan have a competition to see who can tie up the most enemies fastest. Spidey´s using his webs and the fan is using an aerosol can of silly string. So far they are tied. Primitives tie, thread, spiderman, aerosol, samurai, mouth 結核(けっかく): tuberculosis, tubercule 結合(けつごう): combination, union 結晶(けっしょう): crystal, crystallization 結成(けっせい): formation 結束(けっそく): union, unity 妥結(だけつ): agreement 団結(だんけつ): unity, union, combination 結び(むすび): ending, conclusion, union 結び付き(むすびつき): connection, relation 結び付く(むすびつく): to be connected or related, to join together 結び付ける(むすびつける): to combine, to join, to tie on, to attach with a knot 結果(けっか): result, consequence 結局(けっきょく): after all, eventually 結論(けつろん): reason, sum up, conclude 結ぶ(むすぶ): tie, bind, link 結構(けっこう): splendid, nice, wonderful, delicious, sweet, construction, architecture, well enough, tolerably 結婚(けっこん): marriage Kunyomi: むす.ぶ、ゆ.う、ゆ.わえる Onyomi: ケツ、ケチ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 結ぶ (むす.ぶ), 結う (ゆ.う), 結わえる (ゆ.わえる)"
end Details Story Dictionary 終 end Heisig's Thread . . . winter. Koohii #1 This winter is so cold that spiderman´s web gets brittle! Could this be the end of spiderman? Koohii #2 The thread of life begins with the spring and ends with the winter. Primitives end, thread, spiderman, winter, walking legs, ice, drop, drop2 終わる(おわる): to finish, to close 終始(しゅうし): beginning and end, from beginning to end, doing a thing from beginning to end 終日(しゅうじつ): all day 終える(おえる): to finish 終る(おわる): finish, close 最終(さいしゅう): last, final, closing 始終(しじゅう): continuously, from beginning to end 終点(しゅうてん): terminus, last stop (e.g train) 終了(しゅうりょう): end, close, termination 終わり(おわり): the end Kunyomi: お.わる、-お.わる、おわ.る、お.える、つい、つい.に Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 終える (お.える), 終わる (お.わる)	end 終 画数11 1452 Details Story Dictionary 終 end Heisig's Thread . . . winter. Koohii #1 This winter is so cold that spiderman´s web gets brittle! Could this be the end of spiderman? Koohii #2 The thread of life begins with the spring and ends with the winter. Primitives end, thread, spiderman, winter, walking legs, ice, drop, drop2 終わる(おわる): to finish, to close 終始(しゅうし): beginning and end, from beginning to end, doing a thing from beginning to end 終日(しゅうじつ): all day 終える(おえる): to finish 終る(おわる): finish, close 最終(さいしゅう): last, final, closing 始終(しじゅう): continuously, from beginning to end 終点(しゅうてん): terminus, last stop (e.g train) 終了(しゅうりょう): end, close, termination 終わり(おわり): the end Kunyomi: お.わる、-お.わる、おわ.る、お.える、つい、つい.に Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 終える (お.える), 終わる (お.わる)
"class Details Story Dictionary 級 class Heisig's Threads . . . outstretched hands. Koohii #1 This Kanji is the same ones used in the Japanese Language proficiency tests; i.e. ikkyuu (一級) The Kanji doesnt describe class as in a ""class of students"" or ""classroom,"" but rather a grade of quality or ability. ---------- Spiderman is taking the JLPT Level 1. In desperation he REACHES OUT to grab his friend´s answer sheet next to him, who seems to be doing well. The other test takers are obviously a class above him. Looks like this test is above his class of knowledge. Koohii #2 We can almost see the outstreched hands of the lower classes wearing just a few threads in this kanji. Primitives class, thread, spiderman, reach out, outstretched hands 階級(かいきゅう): class, rank, grade 等級(とうきゅう): grade, class 同級(どうきゅう): the same grade, same class 学級(がっきゅう): grade in school 級(きゅう): class, grade, rank 高級(こうきゅう): high class, high grade 上級(じょうきゅう): advanced level, high grade, senior 初級(しょきゅう): elementary level Kunyomi: Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"class 級 画数9 1453 Details Story Dictionary 級 class Heisig's Threads . . . outstretched hands. Koohii #1 This Kanji is the same ones used in the Japanese Language proficiency tests; i.e. ikkyuu (一級) The Kanji doesnt describe class as in a ""class of students"" or ""classroom,"" but rather a grade of quality or ability. ---------- Spiderman is taking the JLPT Level 1. In desperation he REACHES OUT to grab his friend´s answer sheet next to him, who seems to be doing well. The other test takers are obviously a class above him. Looks like this test is above his class of knowledge. Koohii #2 We can almost see the outstreched hands of the lower classes wearing just a few threads in this kanji. Primitives class, thread, spiderman, reach out, outstretched hands 階級(かいきゅう): class, rank, grade 等級(とうきゅう): grade, class 同級(どうきゅう): the same grade, same class 学級(がっきゅう): grade in school 級(きゅう): class, grade, rank 高級(こうきゅう): high class, high grade 上級(じょうきゅう): advanced level, high grade, senior 初級(しょきゅう): elementary level Kunyomi: Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
chronicle Details Story Dictionary 紀 chronicle Heisig's Thread . . . snake. Koohii #1 In a CHRONICLE the THREAD of the story can twist and turn like a SNAKE. Koohii #2 Worst fan fiction ever....SPIDERMAN joins the CHRONICLES of narnia to battle a big SNAKE!! Primitives chronicle, thread, spiderman, snake, self 世紀(せいき): century, era Kunyomi: Onyomi: キ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	chronicle 紀 画数9 1454 Details Story Dictionary 紀 chronicle Heisig's Thread . . . snake. Koohii #1 In a CHRONICLE the THREAD of the story can twist and turn like a SNAKE. Koohii #2 Worst fan fiction ever....SPIDERMAN joins the CHRONICLES of narnia to battle a big SNAKE!! Primitives chronicle, thread, spiderman, snake, self 世紀(せいき): century, era Kunyomi: Onyomi: キ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
crimson Details Story Dictionary 紅 crimson Heisig's Thread . . . craft. Koohii #1 After Spider-Man is whacked in the head with a I-beam, crimson blood flows from the wound. Koohii #2 A person's first piece of thread craft is often stained crimson due to bleeding from the needle wounds sustained in the process. Primitives crimson, thread, spiderman, craft 口紅(くちべに): lipstick 紅茶(こうちゃ): black tea 紅葉(こうよう): autumn colours 紅葉(もみじ): autumn colours, (Japanese) maple Kunyomi: べに、くれない、あか.い Onyomi: コウ、ク Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 紅白 (こうはく), 紅茶 (こうちゃ), 紅葉 (こうよう), 紅 (くれない), 紅 (べに)	crimson 紅 画数9 1455 Details Story Dictionary 紅 crimson Heisig's Thread . . . craft. Koohii #1 After Spider-Man is whacked in the head with a I-beam, crimson blood flows from the wound. Koohii #2 A person's first piece of thread craft is often stained crimson due to bleeding from the needle wounds sustained in the process. Primitives crimson, thread, spiderman, craft 口紅(くちべに): lipstick 紅茶(こうちゃ): black tea 紅葉(こうよう): autumn colours 紅葉(もみじ): autumn colours, (Japanese) maple Kunyomi: べに、くれない、あか.い Onyomi: コウ、ク Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 紅白 (こうはく), 紅茶 (こうちゃ), 紅葉 (こうよう), 紅 (くれない), 紅 (べに)
settlement Details Story Dictionary 納 settlement Heisig's Thread . . . inside. Koohii #1 Have you heard about patients who have surgery and the doctor mistakenly leaves a medical instrument INSIDE the patient’s body and proceeds to stitch up the patient’s incisions with stitching THREAD? Can you say “malpractice SETTLEMENT”?　. Koohii #2 Spider-Man was working as a surgeon´s assistant. By accident, he threw his spider webs inside the patient, causing his death. Fortunately, the hospital reached an out-of-court settlement with the victim´s family. Primitives settlement, thread, spiderman, inside, person, belt 納まる(おさまる): to be obtained, to end, to settle into, to fit into, to be settled, to be paid, to be delivered 納める(おさめる): to obtain, to reap, to pay, to supply, to accept 滞納(たいのう): non-payment, default 納入(のうにゅう): payment, supply 納得(なっとく): consent, assent, understanding, agreement, comprehension, grasp Kunyomi: おさ.める、-おさ.める、おさ.まる Onyomi: ノウ、ナッ、ナ、ナン、トウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 納入 (のうにゅう), 納涼 (のうりょう), 収納 (しゅうのう), 納得 (なっとく), 納豆 (なっとう), 納屋 (なや), 納戸 (なんど), 納まる (おさ.まる), 納める (おさ.める)	settlement 納 画数10 1456 Details Story Dictionary 納 settlement Heisig's Thread . . . inside. Koohii #1 Have you heard about patients who have surgery and the doctor mistakenly leaves a medical instrument INSIDE the patient’s body and proceeds to stitch up the patient’s incisions with stitching THREAD? Can you say “malpractice SETTLEMENT”?　. Koohii #2 Spider-Man was working as a surgeon´s assistant. By accident, he threw his spider webs inside the patient, causing his death. Fortunately, the hospital reached an out-of-court settlement with the victim´s family. Primitives settlement, thread, spiderman, inside, person, belt 納まる(おさまる): to be obtained, to end, to settle into, to fit into, to be settled, to be paid, to be delivered 納める(おさめる): to obtain, to reap, to pay, to supply, to accept 滞納(たいのう): non-payment, default 納入(のうにゅう): payment, supply 納得(なっとく): consent, assent, understanding, agreement, comprehension, grasp Kunyomi: おさ.める、-おさ.める、おさ.まる Onyomi: ノウ、ナッ、ナ、ナン、トウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 納入 (のうにゅう), 納涼 (のうりょう), 収納 (しゅうのう), 納得 (なっとく), 納豆 (なっとう), 納屋 (なや), 納戸 (なんど), 納まる (おさ.まる), 納める (おさ.める)
spinning Details Story Dictionary 紡 spinning Heisig's For the kanji that means the spinning of thread and other fibers we have the elements: thread . . . compass. Koohii #1 Spiderman can spin his webs in any direction. Koohii #2 You keep me spinning right round, baby right round, like a compass baby. Spidey is making a retro 80s music video, spinning right round on his giant compass, singing his favourite song. Primitives spinning, thread, spiderman, compass, direction 紡績(ぼうせき): spinning Kunyomi: つむ.ぐ Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 紡ぐ (つむ.ぐ)	spinning 紡 画数10 1457 Details Story Dictionary 紡 spinning Heisig's For the kanji that means the spinning of thread and other fibers we have the elements: thread . . . compass. Koohii #1 Spiderman can spin his webs in any direction. Koohii #2 You keep me spinning right round, baby right round, like a compass baby. Spidey is making a retro 80s music video, spinning right round on his giant compass, singing his favourite song. Primitives spinning, thread, spiderman, compass, direction 紡績(ぼうせき): spinning Kunyomi: つむ.ぐ Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 紡ぐ (つむ.ぐ)
"distract Details Story Dictionary 紛 distract Heisig's Thread . . . part. Koohii #1 It is easy for arguments to get distracted from the main thread by a tendency to part threads (splitting hairs). Koohii #2 Spiderman got distracted when someone yelled, ""Spiderman, wait a minute."" He turned around and flew into a building. (""part"" also means ""minute""). Primitives distract, thread, spiderman, part, eight, sword, dagger 紛失(ふんしつ): losing something 紛争(ふんそう): dispute, trouble, strife 紛らわしい(まぎらわしい): confusing, misleading, equivocal, ambiguous 紛れる(まぎれる): to be diverted, to slip into Kunyomi: まぎ.れる、-まぎ.れ、まぎ.らす、まぎ.らわす、まぎ.らわしい Onyomi: フン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 紛らす (まぎ.らす), 紛らわしい (まぎ.らわしい), 紛らわす (まぎ.らわす), 紛れる (まぎ.れる)"	"distract 紛 画数10 1458 Details Story Dictionary 紛 distract Heisig's Thread . . . part. Koohii #1 It is easy for arguments to get distracted from the main thread by a tendency to part threads (splitting hairs). Koohii #2 Spiderman got distracted when someone yelled, ""Spiderman, wait a minute."" He turned around and flew into a building. (""part"" also means ""minute""). Primitives distract, thread, spiderman, part, eight, sword, dagger 紛失(ふんしつ): losing something 紛争(ふんそう): dispute, trouble, strife 紛らわしい(まぎらわしい): confusing, misleading, equivocal, ambiguous 紛れる(まぎれる): to be diverted, to slip into Kunyomi: まぎ.れる、-まぎ.れ、まぎ.らす、まぎ.らわす、まぎ.らわしい Onyomi: フン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 紛らす (まぎ.らす), 紛らわしい (まぎ.らわしい), 紛らわす (まぎ.らわす), 紛れる (まぎ.れる)"
introduce Details Story Dictionary 紹 introduce Heisig's Thread . . . seduce. Koohii #1 Spiderman seduces all the girls he´s introduced to. Koohii #2 You only get one chance to make a first impression, so make sure you're wearing nice threads when you get introduced to a girl. Otherwise you might have trouble seducing her. Primitives introduce, thread, spiderman, summon, seduce, sword, dagger, mouth 紹介(しょうかい): introduce Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	introduce 紹 画数11 1459 Details Story Dictionary 紹 introduce Heisig's Thread . . . seduce. Koohii #1 Spiderman seduces all the girls he´s introduced to. Koohii #2 You only get one chance to make a first impression, so make sure you're wearing nice threads when you get introduced to a girl. Otherwise you might have trouble seducing her. Primitives introduce, thread, spiderman, summon, seduce, sword, dagger, mouth 紹介(しょうかい): introduce Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
experience/sutra Details Story Dictionary 経 experience/sutra My Story This experience was like a *thread*, not like *Jesus taking a dump* Koohii #1 The word ‘sutra’ literally means a rope or thread that holds things together. Here we see that it is a spool that is holding the threads together. Koohii #2 Spiderman is intriqued by some of the positions of the karma sutra, but reluctant to take part in an sutra orgy as he´d have to reveal his soiled underwear. Primitives sutra, thread, spiderman, spool, clod, toilet paper, crotch, soil, dirt, ground 経緯(いきさつ): details, whole story, sequence of events, particulars, how it started, how things got this way, complications, position 経過(けいか): passage, expiration, progress 経費(けいひ): expenses, cost, outlay 経歴(けいれき): personal history, career 経路(けいろ): course, route, channel 経る(へる): to pass, to elapse, to experience 経営(けいえい): management, administration 経度(けいど): longitude 経由(けいゆ): go by the way, via 神経(しんけい): nerve, sensitivity 経つ(たつ): pass, lapse 経験(けいけん): experience 経済(けいざい): economy Kunyomi: へ.る、た.つ、たていと、はか.る、のり Onyomi: ケイ、キョウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 経費 (けいひ), 経済 (けいざい), 経験 (けいけん), 経る (へ.る)	experience/sutra 経 画数11 1460 Details Story Dictionary 経 experience/sutra My Story This experience was like a *thread*, not like *Jesus taking a dump* Koohii #1 The word ‘sutra’ literally means a rope or thread that holds things together. Here we see that it is a spool that is holding the threads together. Koohii #2 Spiderman is intriqued by some of the positions of the karma sutra, but reluctant to take part in an sutra orgy as he´d have to reveal his soiled underwear. Primitives sutra, thread, spiderman, spool, clod, toilet paper, crotch, soil, dirt, ground 経緯(いきさつ): details, whole story, sequence of events, particulars, how it started, how things got this way, complications, position 経過(けいか): passage, expiration, progress 経費(けいひ): expenses, cost, outlay 経歴(けいれき): personal history, career 経路(けいろ): course, route, channel 経る(へる): to pass, to elapse, to experience 経営(けいえい): management, administration 経度(けいど): longitude 経由(けいゆ): go by the way, via 神経(しんけい): nerve, sensitivity 経つ(たつ): pass, lapse 経験(けいけん): experience 経済(けいざい): economy Kunyomi: へ.る、た.つ、たていと、はか.る、のり Onyomi: ケイ、キョウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 経費 (けいひ), 経済 (けいざい), 経験 (けいけん), 経る (へ.る)
sire Details Story Dictionary 紳 sire Heisig's Thread . . . monkey. Koohii #1 Monkeys are very adept at swinging around trees. But when they met Spiderman, who could swing around even better than they could, they all quickly addressed him as sire. Koohii #2 From the fairy tale ‘emperor’s new clothes.’ sire, i know you say it's made of the finest threads, but i’m afraid someone has made a monkey of you. Primitives sire, thread, spiderman, monkey, sun, day, stick 紳士(しんし): gentleman Kunyomi: Onyomi: シン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	sire 紳 画数11 1461 Details Story Dictionary 紳 sire Heisig's Thread . . . monkey. Koohii #1 Monkeys are very adept at swinging around trees. But when they met Spiderman, who could swing around even better than they could, they all quickly addressed him as sire. Koohii #2 From the fairy tale ‘emperor’s new clothes.’ sire, i know you say it's made of the finest threads, but i’m afraid someone has made a monkey of you. Primitives sire, thread, spiderman, monkey, sun, day, stick 紳士(しんし): gentleman Kunyomi: Onyomi: シン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"promise Details Story Dictionary 約 promise My Story Blood oath is a promise, where a drop of blood turns into a binding thread. Koohii #1 He tied a thread around the ladle as a reminder of his promise to do more house work. Koohii #2 Spiderman promised to get Aunt Mae´s ladle back. He started to do a blood oath by spilling drops of blood but Aunt Mae stopped him and bound up the wound. ""It´s only a ladle Peter"". Primitives promise, thread, spiderman, ladle 規約(きやく): agreement, rules, code 倹約(けんやく): thrift, economy, frugality 条約(じょうやく): treaty, pact 制約(せいやく): limitation, restriction, condition, constraints 契約(けいやく): contract, compact, agreement 婚約(こんやく): engagement, betrothal 節約(せつやく): economising, saving 約(やく): approximately, about, some 約束(やくそく): promise 予約(よやく): reservation Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヤク Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"promise 約 画数9 1462 Details Story Dictionary 約 promise My Story Blood oath is a promise, where a drop of blood turns into a binding thread. Koohii #1 He tied a thread around the ladle as a reminder of his promise to do more house work. Koohii #2 Spiderman promised to get Aunt Mae´s ladle back. He started to do a blood oath by spilling drops of blood but Aunt Mae stopped him and bound up the wound. ""It´s only a ladle Peter"". Primitives promise, thread, spiderman, ladle 規約(きやく): agreement, rules, code 倹約(けんやく): thrift, economy, frugality 条約(じょうやく): treaty, pact 制約(せいやく): limitation, restriction, condition, constraints 契約(けいやく): contract, compact, agreement 婚約(こんやく): engagement, betrothal 節約(せつやく): economising, saving 約(やく): approximately, about, some 約束(やくそく): promise 予約(よやく): reservation Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヤク Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
dainty Details Story Dictionary 細 dainty Heisig's Thread . . . brains. Koohii #1 Dainty women would always rather work with thread than in a field. Koohii #2 Spider-Man used to just be a dainty, brainy nerd. Primitives dainty, thread, spiderman, rice field, brains 心細い(こころぼそい): helpless, forlorn, hopeless, unpromising, lonely, discouraging, disheartening 細やか(こまやか): friendly 細菌(さいきん): bacillus, bacterium, germ 細工(さいく): work, craftsmanship, tactics, trick 細胞(さいぼう): cell (biology) 詳細(しょうさい): detail, particulars 細かい(こまかい): small, detailed 細い(ほそい): thin, slender, fine Kunyomi: ほそ.い、ほそ.る、こま.か、こま.かい Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 細か (こま.か), 細かい (こま.かい), 細い (ほそ.い), 細る (ほそ.る)	dainty 細 画数11 1463 Details Story Dictionary 細 dainty Heisig's Thread . . . brains. Koohii #1 Dainty women would always rather work with thread than in a field. Koohii #2 Spider-Man used to just be a dainty, brainy nerd. Primitives dainty, thread, spiderman, rice field, brains 心細い(こころぼそい): helpless, forlorn, hopeless, unpromising, lonely, discouraging, disheartening 細やか(こまやか): friendly 細菌(さいきん): bacillus, bacterium, germ 細工(さいく): work, craftsmanship, tactics, trick 細胞(さいぼう): cell (biology) 詳細(しょうさい): detail, particulars 細かい(こまかい): small, detailed 細い(ほそい): thin, slender, fine Kunyomi: ほそ.い、ほそ.る、こま.か、こま.かい Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 細か (こま.か), 細かい (こま.かい), 細い (ほそ.い), 細る (ほそ.る)
accumulate Details Story Dictionary 累 accumulate Heisig's Rice field . . . threads. Make use of the position of the elements to distinguish this kanji from that of the previous frame. Koohii #1 When you accumulate knowledge in your brain, neural pathways are constructed. All those pathways end up like a huge ball of thread tangled together. The more knowledge you accumulate the more threads you throw into the mix!! Koohii #2 (dingomick) Venom is upset because Spidey is just that much brainier than he is! He chooses to accumulate as many brains as he can, snatching them out of people´s heads and storing them on top of his own, till there´s just one massive brain on top of his head! Primitives accumulate, rice field, brains, thread, spiderman Kunyomi: Onyomi: ルイ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	accumulate 累 画数11 1464 Details Story Dictionary 累 accumulate Heisig's Rice field . . . threads. Make use of the position of the elements to distinguish this kanji from that of the previous frame. Koohii #1 When you accumulate knowledge in your brain, neural pathways are constructed. All those pathways end up like a huge ball of thread tangled together. The more knowledge you accumulate the more threads you throw into the mix!! Koohii #2 (dingomick) Venom is upset because Spidey is just that much brainier than he is! He chooses to accumulate as many brains as he can, snatching them out of people´s heads and storing them on top of his own, till there´s just one massive brain on top of his head! Primitives accumulate, rice field, brains, thread, spiderman Kunyomi: Onyomi: ルイ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
cord Details Story Dictionary 索 cord Heisig's Chapel (see frame 930) . . . thread. Koohii #1 A coaxial cord has a needle-like pin, a crown cap for screwing it in, and insulation made of thread. Koohii #2 Spiderman has been captured and given the ultimate torture: they forced a crown of needles on his head and attached it to an electrical cord, which they are about to plug into an outlet... Primitives cord, bishop, cross, ten, needle, crown, thread, spiderman 捜索(そうさく): search (esp. for someone or something missing), investigation 模索(もさく): groping (for) 索引(さくいん): index, indices Kunyomi: Onyomi: サク Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	cord 索 画数10 1465 Details Story Dictionary 索 cord Heisig's Chapel (see frame 930) . . . thread. Koohii #1 A coaxial cord has a needle-like pin, a crown cap for screwing it in, and insulation made of thread. Koohii #2 Spiderman has been captured and given the ultimate torture: they forced a crown of needles on his head and attached it to an electrical cord, which they are about to plug into an outlet... Primitives cord, bishop, cross, ten, needle, crown, thread, spiderman 捜索(そうさく): search (esp. for someone or something missing), investigation 模索(もさく): groping (for) 索引(さくいん): index, indices Kunyomi: Onyomi: サク Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
general Details Story Dictionary 総 general My Story To win GENERAL approval, THREAD your way into the PUBLIC's HEART. Koohii #1 Spiderman could not achieve general acceptance by the media even after winning the public´s heart. Koohii #2 General or universal refers to the common thread running through the public's heart. Primitives general, thread, spiderman, public, eight, elbows, heart 総(そう): whole, all, general, gross 総会(そうかい): general meeting 総合(そうごう): synthesis, coordination, putting together, integration, composite 総理大臣(そうりだいじん): Prime Minister Kunyomi: す.べて、すべ.て、ふさ Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	general 総 画数14 1466 Details Story Dictionary 総 general My Story To win GENERAL approval, THREAD your way into the PUBLIC's HEART. Koohii #1 Spiderman could not achieve general acceptance by the media even after winning the public´s heart. Koohii #2 General or universal refers to the common thread running through the public's heart. Primitives general, thread, spiderman, public, eight, elbows, heart 総(そう): whole, all, general, gross 総会(そうかい): general meeting 総合(そうごう): synthesis, coordination, putting together, integration, composite 総理大臣(そうりだいじん): Prime Minister Kunyomi: す.べて、すべ.て、ふさ Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
cotton Details Story Dictionary 綿 cotton Heisig's Thread . . . white . . . towels. Koohii #1 Spiderman´s polyethylene suit starts to ride up after a while, so he always looks forward to the white cotton towels he wears while lounging around his apartment. Koohii #2 Cotton is the preferred thread for making white towels. Primitives cotton, thread, spiderman, napkin, white, dove, towel 木綿(きわた): cotton 綿(めん): raw cotton 綿(わた): cotton, padding 木綿(もめん): cotton Kunyomi: わた Onyomi: メン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 綿 (わた)	cotton 綿 画数14 1467 Details Story Dictionary 綿 cotton Heisig's Thread . . . white . . . towels. Koohii #1 Spiderman´s polyethylene suit starts to ride up after a while, so he always looks forward to the white cotton towels he wears while lounging around his apartment. Koohii #2 Cotton is the preferred thread for making white towels. Primitives cotton, thread, spiderman, napkin, white, dove, towel 木綿(きわた): cotton 綿(めん): raw cotton 綿(わた): cotton, padding 木綿(もめん): cotton Kunyomi: わた Onyomi: メン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 綿 (わた)
silk Details Story Dictionary 絹 silk Heisig's Thread . . . mouth . . . flesh. Koohii #1 Silk threads are coming out of the caterpillar's mouth to cover its flesh while it transforms into a cocoon. Koohii #2 Spider-man loves to run his mouth all over Mary Jane´s silky flesh. Primitives silk, thread, spiderman, mouth, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 絹(きぬ): silk Kunyomi: きぬ Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 絹 (きぬ)	silk 絹 画数13 1468 Details Story Dictionary 絹 silk Heisig's Thread . . . mouth . . . flesh. Koohii #1 Silk threads are coming out of the caterpillar's mouth to cover its flesh while it transforms into a cocoon. Koohii #2 Spider-man loves to run his mouth all over Mary Jane´s silky flesh. Primitives silk, thread, spiderman, mouth, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 絹(きぬ): silk Kunyomi: きぬ Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 絹 (きぬ)
winding Details Story Dictionary 繰 winding Heisig's Thread . . . goods . . . tree. Koohii #1 Winding thread around wooden goods (paper) to ready them for safe transport. Koohii #2 After stopping a bank heist, Spiderman is seen winding his webbing around the stolen goods to trap them in a tree until the police arrive to take them back. Primitives winding, thread, spiderman, furniture, goods, mouth, tree, wood, mouth3 繰り返す(くりかえす): repeat, do over again 引っ繰り返す(ひっくりかえす): turn over, overturn, knock over, upset, turn inside out 引っ繰り返る(ひっくりかえる): be overturned, be upset, topple over, be reversed Kunyomi: く.る Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 繰る (く.る)	winding 繰 画数19 1469 Details Story Dictionary 繰 winding Heisig's Thread . . . goods . . . tree. Koohii #1 Winding thread around wooden goods (paper) to ready them for safe transport. Koohii #2 After stopping a bank heist, Spiderman is seen winding his webbing around the stolen goods to trap them in a tree until the police arrive to take them back. Primitives winding, thread, spiderman, furniture, goods, mouth, tree, wood, mouth3 繰り返す(くりかえす): repeat, do over again 引っ繰り返す(ひっくりかえす): turn over, overturn, knock over, upset, turn inside out 引っ繰り返る(ひっくりかえる): be overturned, be upset, topple over, be reversed Kunyomi: く.る Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 繰る (く.る)
inherit Details Story Dictionary 継 inherit Heisig's Thread . . . rice . . . fishhook. Compare frame 1218. Koohii #1 A poor chinese fisherman could expect to inherit: the thread for his pole, a hook for catching something to eat, and some rice to live off of. (not concentrating on stroke order, sorry if that throws anyone off). (Adapted from bigloui,12-4-2006). Koohii #2 Spider-Man is hooked on rice--it´s all he inherited from his Uncle Ben. (thanks Nukemarine). Primitives inherit, thread, spiderman, rice, fishhook 跡継ぎ(あとつぎ): heir, successor 受け継ぐ(うけつぐ): to inherit, to succeed, to take over 中継(ちゅうけい): relay, hook-up 継ぎ目(つぎめ): a joint, joining point 継ぐ(つぐ): to succeed 継続(けいぞく): continuation Kunyomi: つ.ぐ、まま- Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 継ぐ (つ.ぐ)	inherit 継 画数13 1470 Details Story Dictionary 継 inherit Heisig's Thread . . . rice . . . fishhook. Compare frame 1218. Koohii #1 A poor chinese fisherman could expect to inherit: the thread for his pole, a hook for catching something to eat, and some rice to live off of. (not concentrating on stroke order, sorry if that throws anyone off). (Adapted from bigloui,12-4-2006). Koohii #2 Spider-Man is hooked on rice--it´s all he inherited from his Uncle Ben. (thanks Nukemarine). Primitives inherit, thread, spiderman, rice, fishhook 跡継ぎ(あとつぎ): heir, successor 受け継ぐ(うけつぐ): to inherit, to succeed, to take over 中継(ちゅうけい): relay, hook-up 継ぎ目(つぎめ): a joint, joining point 継ぐ(つぐ): to succeed 継続(けいぞく): continuation Kunyomi: つ.ぐ、まま- Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 継ぐ (つ.ぐ)
green Details Story Dictionary 緑 green My Story I have a RE-OCCURRING nightmare where green water pours out of my snout like a green string uncoiling. (see {録}, {線}) Koohii #1 When you attend a green tea (緑茶=りょくちゃ) ceremony, you can cherish the threadwork on the kimonos people don, the broom-like whisk (茶筌 =ちゃせん) you use to grind up your tea, and the delicious rice cakes you eat with your tea! Koohii #2 In summer, all of Japan turns green with the green threads that fan out like brooms to later produce grains of rice. An easy image if you have ever looked out the window of the train to see all the summer rice paddies... Primitives green, thread, spiderman, dustpan, broom, grains of rice 緑(みどり): green Kunyomi: みどり Onyomi: リョク、ロク Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 緑茶 (りょくちゃ), 緑陰 (みどりいん), 新緑 (しんりょく), 緑 (みどり)	green 緑 画数14 1471 Details Story Dictionary 緑 green My Story I have a RE-OCCURRING nightmare where green water pours out of my snout like a green string uncoiling. (see {録}, {線}) Koohii #1 When you attend a green tea (緑茶=りょくちゃ) ceremony, you can cherish the threadwork on the kimonos people don, the broom-like whisk (茶筌 =ちゃせん) you use to grind up your tea, and the delicious rice cakes you eat with your tea! Koohii #2 In summer, all of Japan turns green with the green threads that fan out like brooms to later produce grains of rice. An easy image if you have ever looked out the window of the train to see all the summer rice paddies... Primitives green, thread, spiderman, dustpan, broom, grains of rice 緑(みどり): green Kunyomi: みどり Onyomi: リョク、ロク Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 緑茶 (りょくちゃ), 緑陰 (みどりいん), 新緑 (しんりょく), 緑 (みどり)
affinity Details Story Dictionary 縁 affinity Heisig's Thread . . . broom . . . sow. Koohii #1 There once was a lonely little pig that constantly followed Spiderman, always nuzzling his leg and oinking tenderly. Spiderman finally caved in and decided to keep the little pig under one condition: the pig was to take a broom and sweep up all of Spiderman´s leftover threads after having fought crime. The pig felt such affinity for Spiderman, he happily accepted—and did a good job too. Koohii #2 Certain people have an affinity for romantic partners who are handy with thread and a broom - it is of no consequence if they look like pigs. hmm... Primitives affinity, thread, spiderman, broom, sow, pig 縁(えん): chance, fate, destiny, relation, bonds, connection, karma 縁側(えんがわ): veranda, porch, balcony, open corridor 縁談(えんだん): marriage proposal, engagement 縁(ふち): (surrounding) edge Kunyomi: ふち、ふちど.る、ゆかり、よすが、へり、えにし Onyomi: エン、ネン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 縁 (ふち)	affinity 縁 画数15 1472 Details Story Dictionary 縁 affinity Heisig's Thread . . . broom . . . sow. Koohii #1 There once was a lonely little pig that constantly followed Spiderman, always nuzzling his leg and oinking tenderly. Spiderman finally caved in and decided to keep the little pig under one condition: the pig was to take a broom and sweep up all of Spiderman´s leftover threads after having fought crime. The pig felt such affinity for Spiderman, he happily accepted—and did a good job too. Koohii #2 Certain people have an affinity for romantic partners who are handy with thread and a broom - it is of no consequence if they look like pigs. hmm... Primitives affinity, thread, spiderman, broom, sow, pig 縁(えん): chance, fate, destiny, relation, bonds, connection, karma 縁側(えんがわ): veranda, porch, balcony, open corridor 縁談(えんだん): marriage proposal, engagement 縁(ふち): (surrounding) edge Kunyomi: ふち、ふちど.る、ゆかり、よすが、へり、えにし Onyomi: エン、ネン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 縁 (ふち)
netting Details Story Dictionary 網 netting Heisig's Thread . . . glass canopy . . . animal horns . . . perish. Koohii #1 Spiderman traps The Rhino under the hood of his famous netting, where even Rhino´s horns can not break free, in fact if the netting did not dissappear after a few hours then Rhino might even perish in there. Koohii #2 You use a 糸 to make a net shaped like a hood. A stray animal got caught in it by its horns and perished. Primitives netting, thread, spiderman, glass jar, hood, horns, one, deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook 網(あみ): net, network Kunyomi: あみ Onyomi: モウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 網 (あみ)	netting 網 画数14 1473 Details Story Dictionary 網 netting Heisig's Thread . . . glass canopy . . . animal horns . . . perish. Koohii #1 Spiderman traps The Rhino under the hood of his famous netting, where even Rhino´s horns can not break free, in fact if the netting did not dissappear after a few hours then Rhino might even perish in there. Koohii #2 You use a 糸 to make a net shaped like a hood. A stray animal got caught in it by its horns and perished. Primitives netting, thread, spiderman, glass jar, hood, horns, one, deceased, perish, top hat, fishhook 網(あみ): net, network Kunyomi: あみ Onyomi: モウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 網 (あみ)
tense Details Story Dictionary 緊 tense Heisig's Slave . . . crotch . . . thread. Koohii #1 Whenever Venom is tense, he loses control of his sex drive and becomes a slave to his crotch. Koohii #2 You´d be tense too if you were a slave and your owner removed the threads covering your crotch. Primitives tense, loincloth, retainer, slave, crotch, thread, spiderman 緊急(きんきゅう): urgent, pressing, emergency 緊張(きんちょう): tension, mental strain, nervousness Kunyomi: Onyomi: キン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	tense 緊 画数15 1474 Details Story Dictionary 緊 tense Heisig's Slave . . . crotch . . . thread. Koohii #1 Whenever Venom is tense, he loses control of his sex drive and becomes a slave to his crotch. Koohii #2 You´d be tense too if you were a slave and your owner removed the threads covering your crotch. Primitives tense, loincloth, retainer, slave, crotch, thread, spiderman 緊急(きんきゅう): urgent, pressing, emergency 緊張(きんちょう): tension, mental strain, nervousness Kunyomi: Onyomi: キン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
purple Details Story Dictionary 紫 purple Heisig's Footprint . . . spoon . . . thread. Koohii #1 Stop sitting for so long - or else you'll get those purple threads (veins) on your legs from bad circulation. [link purple with those huge purple, bulging, crawling, worm-like varicose veins .....]. Koohii #2 Why is your ass purple? Well, I stopped and sat for a bit on a pile of thread... (I guess it was freshly dyed). Primitives purple, Prince, this here, stop, footprint, spoon, sitting on the ground, thread, spiderman 紫(むらさき): purple, violet (color) Kunyomi: むらさき Onyomi: シ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 紫 (むらさき)	purple 紫 画数12 1475 Details Story Dictionary 紫 purple Heisig's Footprint . . . spoon . . . thread. Koohii #1 Stop sitting for so long - or else you'll get those purple threads (veins) on your legs from bad circulation. [link purple with those huge purple, bulging, crawling, worm-like varicose veins .....]. Koohii #2 Why is your ass purple? Well, I stopped and sat for a bit on a pile of thread... (I guess it was freshly dyed). Primitives purple, Prince, this here, stop, footprint, spoon, sitting on the ground, thread, spiderman 紫(むらさき): purple, violet (color) Kunyomi: むらさき Onyomi: シ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 紫 (むらさき)
truss Details Story Dictionary 縛 truss Heisig's Threads . . . acupuncturist. Koohii #1 Spidey received good word that the acupuncturist working down the road was actually the evil Doctor Octopus! Spidey headed over to the clinic, and trussed the acupuncturist Doc Oc up using the maniac´s own metal limbs! Koohii #2 Because people are so afraid of the procedure, string has to be used by the acunpunturist to truss up his victims, er, patients. Primitives truss, thread, spiderman, acupuncturist, specialty, drop, ten, needle, rice field, brains, glue 束縛(そくばく): restraint, shackles, restriction, confinement, binding 縛る(しばる): tie, bind Kunyomi: しば.る Onyomi: バク Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 縛る (しば.る)	truss 縛 画数16 1476 Details Story Dictionary 縛 truss Heisig's Threads . . . acupuncturist. Koohii #1 Spidey received good word that the acupuncturist working down the road was actually the evil Doctor Octopus! Spidey headed over to the clinic, and trussed the acupuncturist Doc Oc up using the maniac´s own metal limbs! Koohii #2 Because people are so afraid of the procedure, string has to be used by the acunpunturist to truss up his victims, er, patients. Primitives truss, thread, spiderman, acupuncturist, specialty, drop, ten, needle, rice field, brains, glue 束縛(そくばく): restraint, shackles, restriction, confinement, binding 縛る(しばる): tie, bind Kunyomi: しば.る Onyomi: バク Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 縛る (しば.る)
"straw rope Details Story Dictionary 縄 straw rope Heisig's Thread . . . eels. Koohii #1 The tortoise has escaped! We tied it up with a straw rope, but all that´s left of the rope are some torn threads, and the unbound tortoise is nowhere to be found. (Note that the right half here is not ""eels"". This is (in my opinion) a mistake in the RTK book, as we already decided in waterfall (#537) to refer to the simplified form of dragon as ""eels"". It is much better to call the right half of this character an ""unbound tortoise"".). Koohii #2 When Spiderman fights the giant tortoise, he grabs a straw rope from the edges of the sumo ring and swings it at his head. However, the tortoise quickly tucks his head back into his shell to avoid the blow (hence no head on the tortoise). Primitives straw rope, thread, spiderman, eels, sun, day 縄(なわ): rope, hemp Kunyomi: なわ、ただ.す Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 縄 (なわ)"	"straw rope 縄 画数15 1477 Details Story Dictionary 縄 straw rope Heisig's Thread . . . eels. Koohii #1 The tortoise has escaped! We tied it up with a straw rope, but all that´s left of the rope are some torn threads, and the unbound tortoise is nowhere to be found. (Note that the right half here is not ""eels"". This is (in my opinion) a mistake in the RTK book, as we already decided in waterfall (#537) to refer to the simplified form of dragon as ""eels"". It is much better to call the right half of this character an ""unbound tortoise"".). Koohii #2 When Spiderman fights the giant tortoise, he grabs a straw rope from the edges of the sumo ring and swings it at his head. However, the tortoise quickly tucks his head back into his shell to avoid the blow (hence no head on the tortoise). Primitives straw rope, thread, spiderman, eels, sun, day 縄(なわ): rope, hemp Kunyomi: なわ、ただ.す Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 縄 (なわ)"
infancy Details Story Dictionary 幼 infancy Heisig's Cocoon . . . muscle. Koohii #1 In its infancy, a butterfly is protected by a cocoon, as it doesn´t yet have any power of its own. Koohii #2 During their infancy, children are often wrapped up tight like a cocoon (i.e. in those Snugli carriers) and supported by the muscle of their parents. Primitives infancy, cocoon, power, muscle, arnold 幼い(おさない): very young, childish 幼児(ようじ): infant, baby, child 幼稚(ようち): infancy, childish, infantile 幼稚園(ようちえん): kindergarten Kunyomi: おさな.い Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 幼い (おさな.い)	infancy 幼 画数5 1478 Details Story Dictionary 幼 infancy Heisig's Cocoon . . . muscle. Koohii #1 In its infancy, a butterfly is protected by a cocoon, as it doesn´t yet have any power of its own. Koohii #2 During their infancy, children are often wrapped up tight like a cocoon (i.e. in those Snugli carriers) and supported by the muscle of their parents. Primitives infancy, cocoon, power, muscle, arnold 幼い(おさない): very young, childish 幼児(ようじ): infant, baby, child 幼稚(ようち): infancy, childish, infantile 幼稚園(ようちえん): kindergarten Kunyomi: おさな.い Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 幼い (おさな.い)
behind Details Story Dictionary 後 behind Heisig's Line . . . cocoon . . . walking legs. Koohii #1 Column of walking legs (caterpillar) getting into a cocoon, about to leave its past self behind. Koohii #2 after a grub goes through the cocoon stage, it leaves its walking legs behind for a life of flight. Primitives behind, Nelson, column, going, line, cocoon, walking legs 明後日(あさって): day after tomorrow 後回し(あとまわし): putting off, postponing 後悔(こうかい): regret, repentance 後退(こうたい): retreat, backspace (BS) 産後(さんご): postpartum, after childbirth 明々後日(しあさって): two days after tomorrow 背後(はいご): back, rear 以後(いご): from now on, thereafter 後(ご): after 後者(こうしゃ): the latter 後輩(こうはい): junior (at work or school) 今後(こんご): from now on, hereafter 前後(ぜんご): around, throughout, front and back, before and behind, before and after, about that (time), longitudinal, context, nearly, approximately 直後(ちょくご): immediately following 後(のち): afterwards, since then, in the future 明後日(みょうごにち): day after tomorrow 最後(さいご): last time 後(あと): afterwards, since then, in the future 後(うしろ): afterwards, since then, in the future 午後(ごご): afternoon, P.M. Kunyomi: のち、うし.ろ、うしろ、あと、おく.れる Onyomi: ゴ、コウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 後刻 (ごこく), 前後 (ぜんご), 午後 (ごご), 後 (あと), 後ろ (うし.ろ), 後れる (おく.れる), 後 (のち)	behind 後 画数9 1479 Details Story Dictionary 後 behind Heisig's Line . . . cocoon . . . walking legs. Koohii #1 Column of walking legs (caterpillar) getting into a cocoon, about to leave its past self behind. Koohii #2 after a grub goes through the cocoon stage, it leaves its walking legs behind for a life of flight. Primitives behind, Nelson, column, going, line, cocoon, walking legs 明後日(あさって): day after tomorrow 後回し(あとまわし): putting off, postponing 後悔(こうかい): regret, repentance 後退(こうたい): retreat, backspace (BS) 産後(さんご): postpartum, after childbirth 明々後日(しあさって): two days after tomorrow 背後(はいご): back, rear 以後(いご): from now on, thereafter 後(ご): after 後者(こうしゃ): the latter 後輩(こうはい): junior (at work or school) 今後(こんご): from now on, hereafter 前後(ぜんご): around, throughout, front and back, before and behind, before and after, about that (time), longitudinal, context, nearly, approximately 直後(ちょくご): immediately following 後(のち): afterwards, since then, in the future 明後日(みょうごにち): day after tomorrow 最後(さいご): last time 後(あと): afterwards, since then, in the future 後(うしろ): afterwards, since then, in the future 午後(ごご): afternoon, P.M. Kunyomi: のち、うし.ろ、うしろ、あと、おく.れる Onyomi: ゴ、コウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 後刻 (ごこく), 前後 (ぜんご), 午後 (ごご), 後 (あと), 後ろ (うし.ろ), 後れる (おく.れる), 後 (のち)
faint Details Story Dictionary 幽 faint Heisig's Two cocoons . . . mountain. Observe how the two vertical strokes of the mountain are extended upwards to serve as a kind of enclosure. Koohii #1 The villagers haven´t the faintest idea that giant coccoons resting in the mountain are soon to hatch. Koohii #2 Frodo and Sam fainted in the mountains and the spider wrapped them in cacoons. Primitives seclude, faint, cocoon, mountain, cocoon2 幽霊(ゆうれい): ghost, specter, apparition, phantom Kunyomi: ふか.い、かす.か、くら.い、しろ.い Onyomi: ユウ、ヨウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	faint 幽 画数9 1480 Details Story Dictionary 幽 faint Heisig's Two cocoons . . . mountain. Observe how the two vertical strokes of the mountain are extended upwards to serve as a kind of enclosure. Koohii #1 The villagers haven´t the faintest idea that giant coccoons resting in the mountain are soon to hatch. Koohii #2 Frodo and Sam fainted in the mountains and the spider wrapped them in cacoons. Primitives seclude, faint, cocoon, mountain, cocoon2 幽霊(ゆうれい): ghost, specter, apparition, phantom Kunyomi: ふか.い、かす.か、くら.い、しろ.い Onyomi: ユウ、ヨウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
how many Details Story Dictionary 幾 how many Heisig's Two cocoons . . . person . . . fiesta. * As a primitive, this kanji will mean an abacus, the bead-instrument used in the Orient to calculate how many. Koohii #1 It is a little awkward when you are at a fiesta and the host serves some rare delicacy, like moth cocoons, the guests must decide how many it would be polite to eat. You do the math in your head and it comes out to two cocoons per person. This is why the horizontal line is a fraction bar with two cocoons on the top, and one person the bottom. Koohii #2 How many went to the party? Two aliens and one person (I feel sorry for that person). Primitives how many, cocoon, person, fiesta, cocoon2 幾多(いくた): many, numerous 幾つ(いくつ): how many?, how old? 幾分(いくぶん): somewhat 幾ら(いくら): how much?, how many? Kunyomi: いく-、いく.つ、いく.ら Onyomi: キ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 幾 (いく)	how many 幾 画数12 1481 Details Story Dictionary 幾 how many Heisig's Two cocoons . . . person . . . fiesta. * As a primitive, this kanji will mean an abacus, the bead-instrument used in the Orient to calculate how many. Koohii #1 It is a little awkward when you are at a fiesta and the host serves some rare delicacy, like moth cocoons, the guests must decide how many it would be polite to eat. You do the math in your head and it comes out to two cocoons per person. This is why the horizontal line is a fraction bar with two cocoons on the top, and one person the bottom. Koohii #2 How many went to the party? Two aliens and one person (I feel sorry for that person). Primitives how many, cocoon, person, fiesta, cocoon2 幾多(いくた): many, numerous 幾つ(いくつ): how many?, how old? 幾分(いくぶん): somewhat 幾ら(いくら): how much?, how many? Kunyomi: いく-、いく.つ、いく.ら Onyomi: キ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 幾 (いく)
"mechanism Details Story Dictionary 機 mechanism Heisig's Tree . . . abacus. Koohii #1 An abacus is a mechanism made of wood used to calculate how many ´anythings´. Koohii #2 To avoid confusing with contraption (#677), focus on the ""ism"" of mechanism. For example, fetishism refers to having a fetish; mechanism here refers to having a mecha-like property, where mecha is a type of anime robot that can transform itself. Imagine a mecha that can transform itself between two forms: a huge immovable tree (as a form of defense) and a gigantic marching abacus that smashes enemies between its giant beads. Primitives mechanism, tree, wood, abacus, how many, cocoon, person, fiesta, cocoon2 危機(きき): crisis 機構(きこう): mechanism, organization 契機(けいき): opportunity, chance 動機(どうき): motive, incentive 機(はた): loom 有機(ゆうき): organic 機械(きかい): machine, mechanism 機関(きかん): organ, mechanism, facility, engine 機関車(きかんしゃ): locomotive, engine 機嫌(きげん): humour, temper, mood 機能(きのう): function, faculty 交通機関(こうつうきかん): transportation facilities ジェット機(ジェットき): jet airplane 扇風機(せんぷうき): electric fan 機会(きかい): opportunity, chance 飛行機(ひこうき): airplane Kunyomi: はた Onyomi: キ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 機 (はた)"	"mechanism 機 画数16 1482 Details Story Dictionary 機 mechanism Heisig's Tree . . . abacus. Koohii #1 An abacus is a mechanism made of wood used to calculate how many ´anythings´. Koohii #2 To avoid confusing with contraption (#677), focus on the ""ism"" of mechanism. For example, fetishism refers to having a fetish; mechanism here refers to having a mecha-like property, where mecha is a type of anime robot that can transform itself. Imagine a mecha that can transform itself between two forms: a huge immovable tree (as a form of defense) and a gigantic marching abacus that smashes enemies between its giant beads. Primitives mechanism, tree, wood, abacus, how many, cocoon, person, fiesta, cocoon2 危機(きき): crisis 機構(きこう): mechanism, organization 契機(けいき): opportunity, chance 動機(どうき): motive, incentive 機(はた): loom 有機(ゆうき): organic 機械(きかい): machine, mechanism 機関(きかん): organ, mechanism, facility, engine 機関車(きかんしゃ): locomotive, engine 機嫌(きげん): humour, temper, mood 機能(きのう): function, faculty 交通機関(こうつうきかん): transportation facilities ジェット機(ジェットき): jet airplane 扇風機(せんぷうき): electric fan 機会(きかい): opportunity, chance 飛行機(ひこうき): airplane Kunyomi: はた Onyomi: キ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 機 (はた)"
capital suburbs Details Story Dictionary 畿 capital suburbs Heisig's Two cocoons . . . field . . . fiesta. Koohii #1 People aside, I wonder how many rice fields there are in the capital suburbs. Koohii #2 How many brains does it take to run the capital suburbs? Primitives capital suburbs, cocoon, rice field, brains, fiesta, cocoon2 Kunyomi: みやこ Onyomi: キ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	capital suburbs 畿 画数15 1483 Details Story Dictionary 畿 capital suburbs Heisig's Two cocoons . . . field . . . fiesta. Koohii #1 People aside, I wonder how many rice fields there are in the capital suburbs. Koohii #2 How many brains does it take to run the capital suburbs? Primitives capital suburbs, cocoon, rice field, brains, fiesta, cocoon2 Kunyomi: みやこ Onyomi: キ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
mysterious Details Story Dictionary 玄 mysterious Heisig's Top hat . . . cocoon. Koohii #1 What could be more mysterious than a cocoon in a top hat trying to sneak in...? (Pimitive: GANDALF). Koohii #2 The invisible man in his top hat and cocoon of white bandages is the most mysterious man in the world. Primitives mysterious, top hat, cocoon 玄人(くろうと): expert, professional, geisha, prostitute 玄関(げんかん): entranceway, entry hall Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゲン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	mysterious 玄 画数5 1484 Details Story Dictionary 玄 mysterious Heisig's Top hat . . . cocoon. Koohii #1 What could be more mysterious than a cocoon in a top hat trying to sneak in...? (Pimitive: GANDALF). Koohii #2 The invisible man in his top hat and cocoon of white bandages is the most mysterious man in the world. Primitives mysterious, top hat, cocoon 玄人(くろうと): expert, professional, geisha, prostitute 玄関(げんかん): entranceway, entry hall Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゲン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
livestock Details Story Dictionary 畜 livestock Heisig's Mysterious . . . rice field. Koohii #1 The livestock are disappearing! I´ve placed Gandalf over the rice field to protect them. Koohii #2 This mysterious rice field grows not only rice, but livestock too! Picture little pigs and chickens growing right out of the ground, among the rice plants. How bizarre! Primitives livestock, mysterious, top hat, cocoon, rice field, brains 家畜(かちく): domestic animals, livestock, cattle 畜産(ちくさん): animal husbandry 畜生(ちくしょう): beast, brute, damn 牧畜(ぼくちく): stock-farming Kunyomi: Onyomi: チク Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	livestock 畜 画数10 1485 Details Story Dictionary 畜 livestock Heisig's Mysterious . . . rice field. Koohii #1 The livestock are disappearing! I´ve placed Gandalf over the rice field to protect them. Koohii #2 This mysterious rice field grows not only rice, but livestock too! Picture little pigs and chickens growing right out of the ground, among the rice plants. How bizarre! Primitives livestock, mysterious, top hat, cocoon, rice field, brains 家畜(かちく): domestic animals, livestock, cattle 畜産(ちくさん): animal husbandry 畜生(ちくしょう): beast, brute, damn 牧畜(ぼくちく): stock-farming Kunyomi: Onyomi: チク Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
amass Details Story Dictionary 蓄 amass Heisig's Flowers . . . livestock. Koohii #1 One sneaky farmer wanted to amass a large collection of livestock. We all know that cows like to eat flowers, so he planted lines of flowers leading to his own fields. The livestock followed the lines, eating the flowers one by one, and amassed in his field. Koohii #2 Kobe beef. The Japanese amass a fortune pampering livestock feeding them flowers, offering beer, playing music and giving them massages… RTK2:　チク　蓄電池　ちくでんち(battery cell)…　Pure Group:　畜1384. Primitives amass, flowers, livestock, mysterious, top hat, cocoon, rice field, brains 蓄積(ちくせき): accumulation, accumulate, store 貯蓄(ちょちく): savings 蓄える(たくわえる): to store Kunyomi: たくわ.える Onyomi: チク Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 蓄える (たくわ.える)	amass 蓄 画数13 1486 Details Story Dictionary 蓄 amass Heisig's Flowers . . . livestock. Koohii #1 One sneaky farmer wanted to amass a large collection of livestock. We all know that cows like to eat flowers, so he planted lines of flowers leading to his own fields. The livestock followed the lines, eating the flowers one by one, and amassed in his field. Koohii #2 Kobe beef. The Japanese amass a fortune pampering livestock feeding them flowers, offering beer, playing music and giving them massages… RTK2:　チク　蓄電池　ちくでんち(battery cell)…　Pure Group:　畜1384. Primitives amass, flowers, livestock, mysterious, top hat, cocoon, rice field, brains 蓄積(ちくせき): accumulation, accumulate, store 貯蓄(ちょちく): savings 蓄える(たくわえる): to store Kunyomi: たくわ.える Onyomi: チク Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 蓄える (たくわ.える)
bowstring Details Story Dictionary 弦 bowstring Heisig's Bow . . . mysterious. Koohii #1 A magic bow that only Gandalf can yield: there is no bowstring on it, and he uses his magic to fire arrows. Koohii #2 A bow with a mysterious invisible bowstring. Primitives bowstring, bow, mysterious, top hat, cocoon Kunyomi: つる Onyomi: ゲン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 弦 (つる)	bowstring 弦 画数8 1487 Details Story Dictionary 弦 bowstring Heisig's Bow . . . mysterious. Koohii #1 A magic bow that only Gandalf can yield: there is no bowstring on it, and he uses his magic to fire arrows. Koohii #2 A bow with a mysterious invisible bowstring. Primitives bowstring, bow, mysterious, top hat, cocoon Kunyomi: つる Onyomi: ゲン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 弦 (つる)
hug Details Story Dictionary 擁 hug Heisig's Fingers . . . mysterious . . . turkey. Note that the top hat is extended across both elements, though it belongs only to the cocoon. This means that you may either use mysterious - as we did here - or take the three elements separately. Koohii #1 A mysterious turkey with human fingers wants to hug me... I will never go to Tokyo Disneyland again! Koohii #2 Imagine Gandalf hugging a turkey....ouch! It bit off his finger! Primitives hug, finger, fingers, mysterious, top hat, cocoon, turkey Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	hug 擁 画数16 1488 Details Story Dictionary 擁 hug Heisig's Fingers . . . mysterious . . . turkey. Note that the top hat is extended across both elements, though it belongs only to the cocoon. This means that you may either use mysterious - as we did here - or take the three elements separately. Koohii #1 A mysterious turkey with human fingers wants to hug me... I will never go to Tokyo Disneyland again! Koohii #2 Imagine Gandalf hugging a turkey....ouch! It bit off his finger! Primitives hug, finger, fingers, mysterious, top hat, cocoon, turkey Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
nourishing Details Story Dictionary 滋 nourishing Heisig's Water . . . double-mysterious. Note the doubling up of the element for top hat in the primitive for mysterious and assign it a special image, as it will come up in the next two frames. Koohii #1 Water is doubly mysterious. It´s in all our nourishment...and yet, it´s really not nourishing at all. Koohii #2 Going off the idea of the right side meaning rapid growth/increase of small objects, I´ve decided to make the right side be Gremlins, those little mysterious creatures that double rapidly. Gremlins find water a little too nourishing, as it makes them instantly multiply. Primitives nourishing, water, water droplets, water pistol, double-mysterious, mothballs, horns, one, cocoon, cocoon2 Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	nourishing 滋 画数12 1489 Details Story Dictionary 滋 nourishing Heisig's Water . . . double-mysterious. Note the doubling up of the element for top hat in the primitive for mysterious and assign it a special image, as it will come up in the next two frames. Koohii #1 Water is doubly mysterious. It´s in all our nourishment...and yet, it´s really not nourishing at all. Koohii #2 Going off the idea of the right side meaning rapid growth/increase of small objects, I´ve decided to make the right side be Gremlins, those little mysterious creatures that double rapidly. Gremlins find water a little too nourishing, as it makes them instantly multiply. Primitives nourishing, water, water droplets, water pistol, double-mysterious, mothballs, horns, one, cocoon, cocoon2 Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
mercy Details Story Dictionary 慈 mercy Heisig's Double-mysterious . . . heart. Koohii #1 Here we see the DOUBLE-MYSTERIOUS Siamese twins again, at the MERCY of the machines that pump blood through their veins, since the single HEART they share won't do the job... Koohii #2 Here we see the DOUBLE-MYSTERIOUS Siamese twins again, at the MERCY of the machines that pump blood through their veins, since the single HEART they share won´t do the job... Primitives mercy, double-mysterious, mothballs, horns, one, cocoon, heart, cocoon2 Kunyomi: いつく.しむ Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 慈しむ (いつく.しむ)	mercy 慈 画数13 1490 Details Story Dictionary 慈 mercy Heisig's Double-mysterious . . . heart. Koohii #1 Here we see the DOUBLE-MYSTERIOUS Siamese twins again, at the MERCY of the machines that pump blood through their veins, since the single HEART they share won't do the job... Koohii #2 Here we see the DOUBLE-MYSTERIOUS Siamese twins again, at the MERCY of the machines that pump blood through their veins, since the single HEART they share won´t do the job... Primitives mercy, double-mysterious, mothballs, horns, one, cocoon, heart, cocoon2 Kunyomi: いつく.しむ Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 慈しむ (いつく.しむ)
magnet Details Story Dictionary 磁 magnet Heisig's Stone . . . double-mysterious. Koohii #1 A magnet is a rock with two sides; one that mysteriously pushes and one that pulls; doubly mysterious. (see astridtops´ story). Koohii #2 I found some stones on the siamese twins. Turns out the stones were magnetic, and they weren´t siamese twins at all! Primitives magnet, stone, rock, double-mysterious, mothballs, horns, one, cocoon, cocoon2 磁気(じき): magnetism 磁器(じき): porcelain, china 磁石(じしゃく): magnet Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	magnet 磁 画数14 1491 Details Story Dictionary 磁 magnet Heisig's Stone . . . double-mysterious. Koohii #1 A magnet is a rock with two sides; one that mysteriously pushes and one that pulls; doubly mysterious. (see astridtops´ story). Koohii #2 I found some stones on the siamese twins. Turns out the stones were magnetic, and they weren´t siamese twins at all! Primitives magnet, stone, rock, double-mysterious, mothballs, horns, one, cocoon, cocoon2 磁気(じき): magnetism 磁器(じき): porcelain, china 磁石(じしゃく): magnet Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
lineage Details Story Dictionary 系 lineage My Story [Drop + Thread/String] (Primitive: #DNA#) a *drop* of looong spiraled *thread* that is the key to your #lineage#. * As a primitive, we shall give this kanji the meaning of yarn, as the uniting of many threads into a single strand is most obvious with yarn. Koohii #1 A single drop of your blood holds the proof of the unbroken thread of your lineage. Koohii #2 Spiderman´s lineage (who his family is etc...) can be found in his DNA in a drop of blood. The villain that gets blood of Spidey will be able to find out who is family and lineage is. be carfefull spidey... Primitives lineage, stick, drop, thread, spiderman 系(けい): system, lineage, group 系統(けいとう): system, family line, lineage, ancestry, geological formation 体系(たいけい): system, organization Kunyomi: Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	lineage 系 画数7 1492 Details Story Dictionary 系 lineage My Story [Drop + Thread/String] (Primitive: #DNA#) a *drop* of looong spiraled *thread* that is the key to your #lineage#. * As a primitive, we shall give this kanji the meaning of yarn, as the uniting of many threads into a single strand is most obvious with yarn. Koohii #1 A single drop of your blood holds the proof of the unbroken thread of your lineage. Koohii #2 Spiderman´s lineage (who his family is etc...) can be found in his DNA in a drop of blood. The villain that gets blood of Spidey will be able to find out who is family and lineage is. be carfefull spidey... Primitives lineage, stick, drop, thread, spiderman 系(けい): system, lineage, group 系統(けいとう): system, family line, lineage, ancestry, geological formation 体系(たいけい): system, organization Kunyomi: Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"person in charge Details Story Dictionary 係 person in charge My Story [Person + group/tribe {系} ] Person 亻 with the royal lineage 系 is Kate so she's the person in charge. (""Kate"" implies the reading ケイ. Other reading: かかり.) 関係 (かんけい) connection. Mr. T is the person in charge of the DNA research center. Koohii #1 Mister T gets a DNA test, and discovers that he was meant to be the person in charge after all. Koohii #2 The person in charge usually must come from a long standing lineage of persons in charge. Primitives person in charge, person, lineage, drop, thread, spiderman 係り(かかり): official, duty, person in charge 係わる(かかわる): concern oneself in, have to do with, affect, influence 関係(かんけい): relationship Kunyomi: かか.る、かかり、-がかり、かか.わる Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 係る (かか.る), 係 (かかり)"	"person in charge 係 画数9 1493 Details Story Dictionary 係 person in charge My Story [Person + group/tribe {系} ] Person 亻 with the royal lineage 系 is Kate so she's the person in charge. (""Kate"" implies the reading ケイ. Other reading: かかり.) 関係 (かんけい) connection. Mr. T is the person in charge of the DNA research center. Koohii #1 Mister T gets a DNA test, and discovers that he was meant to be the person in charge after all. Koohii #2 The person in charge usually must come from a long standing lineage of persons in charge. Primitives person in charge, person, lineage, drop, thread, spiderman 係り(かかり): official, duty, person in charge 係わる(かかわる): concern oneself in, have to do with, affect, influence 関係(かんけい): relationship Kunyomi: かか.る、かかり、-がかり、かか.わる Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 係る (かか.る), 係 (かかり)"
grandchild Details Story Dictionary 孫 grandchild Heisig's Child . . . yarn. Koohii #1 Your grandchild is the child of your DNA. Koohii #2 Your child continues the family lineage by passing on your DNA, giving you a grandchild. Primitives grandchild, child, lineage, drop, thread, spiderman 子孫(しそん): descendants, posterity, offspring 孫(まご): grandchild Kunyomi: まご Onyomi: ソン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 孫 (まご)	grandchild 孫 画数10 1494 Details Story Dictionary 孫 grandchild Heisig's Child . . . yarn. Koohii #1 Your grandchild is the child of your DNA. Koohii #2 Your child continues the family lineage by passing on your DNA, giving you a grandchild. Primitives grandchild, child, lineage, drop, thread, spiderman 子孫(しそん): descendants, posterity, offspring 孫(まご): grandchild Kunyomi: まご Onyomi: ソン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 孫 (まご)
suspend Details Story Dictionary 懸 suspend My Story [Prefecture {県} + String + Heart] This *prefecture* would suspend (hang) people with a *string* until their *heart* stopped beating Used in: 一生懸命 (いっしょうけんめい) Koohii #1 The prefecture has suspended all DNA research for heart disease because of corruption. All involved will be suspended by their wrists. Koohii #2 There's a suspension bridge connecting one of the prefectures to the Japanese heartland. The supporting cables of the bridge actually look like DNA double-helices. That's Japan for you! Primitives suspend, prefecture, eye, fishhook, small, little, lineage, stick, drop, thread, spiderman, heart 懸賞(けんしょう): offering prizes, winning, reward 一生懸命(いっしょうけんめい): as well as one can, as hard as one can Kunyomi: か.ける、か.かる Onyomi: ケン、ケ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 懸垂 (けんすい), 懸賞 (けんしょう), 懸命 (けんめい), 懸かる (か.かる), 懸ける (か.ける)	suspend 懸 画数20 1495 Details Story Dictionary 懸 suspend My Story [Prefecture {県} + String + Heart] This *prefecture* would suspend (hang) people with a *string* until their *heart* stopped beating Used in: 一生懸命 (いっしょうけんめい) Koohii #1 The prefecture has suspended all DNA research for heart disease because of corruption. All involved will be suspended by their wrists. Koohii #2 There's a suspension bridge connecting one of the prefectures to the Japanese heartland. The supporting cables of the bridge actually look like DNA double-helices. That's Japan for you! Primitives suspend, prefecture, eye, fishhook, small, little, lineage, stick, drop, thread, spiderman, heart 懸賞(けんしょう): offering prizes, winning, reward 一生懸命(いっしょうけんめい): as well as one can, as hard as one can Kunyomi: か.ける、か.かる Onyomi: ケン、ケ Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 懸垂 (けんすい), 懸賞 (けんしょう), 懸命 (けんめい), 懸かる (か.かる), 懸ける (か.ける)
"modest Details Story Dictionary 遜 modest Heisig's Grandchild . . . road. Koohii #1 My parents aren´t at all modest about their grandchildren, at every opportunity they take them on the road showing them off to their friends! Koohii #2 He wasn´t at all modest when telling us about his grandchildren - ""They´re all on the road to success"" he said. Primitives modest, grandchild, child, lineage, drop, thread, spiderman, road 謙遜(けんそん): humble, humility, modesty Kunyomi: したが.う、へりくだ.る、ゆず.る Onyomi: ソン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"modest 遜 画数13 1496 Details Story Dictionary 遜 modest Heisig's Grandchild . . . road. Koohii #1 My parents aren´t at all modest about their grandchildren, at every opportunity they take them on the road showing them off to their friends! Koohii #2 He wasn´t at all modest when telling us about his grandchildren - ""They´re all on the road to success"" he said. Primitives modest, grandchild, child, lineage, drop, thread, spiderman, road 謙遜(けんそん): humble, humility, modesty Kunyomi: したが.う、へりくだ.る、ゆず.る Onyomi: ソン Lesson: 36 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
instead Details Story Dictionary 却 instead Heisig's Gone . . . stamp. Koohii #1 [instead; on the contrary; rather] Gone is the time for stamps - use e-mail instead. Koohii #2 If you tried to attach money to an envelope to pay for postage it would be GONE before it arrived at the post office. That´s why we use STAMPS instead. Primitives instead, gone, soil, dirt, ground, elbow, stamp 却って(かえって): on the contrary, rather, all the more, instead Kunyomi: かえ.って、しりぞ.く、しりぞ.ける Onyomi: キャク Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	instead 却 画数7 1497 Details Story Dictionary 却 instead Heisig's Gone . . . stamp. Koohii #1 [instead; on the contrary; rather] Gone is the time for stamps - use e-mail instead. Koohii #2 If you tried to attach money to an envelope to pay for postage it would be GONE before it arrived at the post office. That´s why we use STAMPS instead. Primitives instead, gone, soil, dirt, ground, elbow, stamp 却って(かえって): on the contrary, rather, all the more, instead Kunyomi: かえ.って、しりぞ.く、しりぞ.ける Onyomi: キャク Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
shins Details Story Dictionary 脚 shins Heisig's Part of the body . . . instead. This character has more or less the same meaning as that for leg learned back in frame 1372. It can also indicate the part of the legs from the shins down, which explains the choice of the key word. Koohii #1 Shins are the part of the body that one uses instead of one´s eyes, for finding furniture in the dark. (Ouch!). Koohii #2 Shins are the part of the body that Japanese traditionally sit on instead of their asses. Primitives skids, shins, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, instead, gone, soil, dirt, ground, elbow, stamp 脚色(きゃくしょく): dramatization (e.g. film) 脚本(きゃくほん): scenario Kunyomi: あし Onyomi: キャク、キャ、カク Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 脚部 (きゃくぶ), 脚本 (きゃくほん), 三脚 (さんきゃく), 脚 (あし)	shins 脚 画数11 1498 Details Story Dictionary 脚 shins Heisig's Part of the body . . . instead. This character has more or less the same meaning as that for leg learned back in frame 1372. It can also indicate the part of the legs from the shins down, which explains the choice of the key word. Koohii #1 Shins are the part of the body that one uses instead of one´s eyes, for finding furniture in the dark. (Ouch!). Koohii #2 Shins are the part of the body that Japanese traditionally sit on instead of their asses. Primitives skids, shins, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, instead, gone, soil, dirt, ground, elbow, stamp 脚色(きゃくしょく): dramatization (e.g. film) 脚本(きゃくほん): scenario Kunyomi: あし Onyomi: キャク、キャ、カク Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 脚部 (きゃくぶ), 脚本 (きゃくほん), 三脚 (さんきゃく), 脚 (あし)
wholesale Details Story Dictionary 卸 wholesale Heisig's The left primitive is a union of a horse and footprint. To the right, the stamp. Koohii #1 Wholesale refers to the sale of goods in quantity to retailers for resale. When this kanji was invented, large loads of goods needed to be transported by horses who left steep footprints because of the weight they carried. The wholesale goods needed a special stamp to indicate that they were legal for resale. Koohii #2 If you need horseshoes (shoes that fit your horse´s footprint), buy them at the wholesale shop. They lick and paste stamps in your membership card so you can get free merchandise later. Primitives wholesale, horseshoe, horse, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse, stop, footprint, stamp 卸す(おろす): sell wholesale, grated (vegetables) Kunyomi: おろ.す、おろし、おろ.し Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 卸す (おろ.す), 卸 (おろし)	wholesale 卸 画数9 1499 Details Story Dictionary 卸 wholesale Heisig's The left primitive is a union of a horse and footprint. To the right, the stamp. Koohii #1 Wholesale refers to the sale of goods in quantity to retailers for resale. When this kanji was invented, large loads of goods needed to be transported by horses who left steep footprints because of the weight they carried. The wholesale goods needed a special stamp to indicate that they were legal for resale. Koohii #2 If you need horseshoes (shoes that fit your horse´s footprint), buy them at the wholesale shop. They lick and paste stamps in your membership card so you can get free merchandise later. Primitives wholesale, horseshoe, horse, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse, stop, footprint, stamp 卸す(おろす): sell wholesale, grated (vegetables) Kunyomi: おろ.す、おろし、おろ.し Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 卸す (おろ.す), 卸 (おろし)
honorable Details Story Dictionary 御 honorable Heisig's Line . . . wholesale. Koohii #1 An honorable man will not try to cut in front of the line at the wholesale stamp store. (Imagine just how much honor it takes facing those long lines at the post office!). Koohii #2 If a trader has an honorable reputation- then people will line up to buy his wholesale goods. Primitives honorable, Nelson, column, going, line, wholesale, horseshoe, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse, stop, footprint, stamp 御負け(おまけ): a discount, a prize, something additional, bonus, an extra, an exaggeration 御(ご): go-, honourable 御馳走(ごちそう): feast, treating (someone) 御免ください(ごめんください): May I come in? 御免なさい(ごめんなさい): I beg your pardon, excuse me 御覧なさい(ごらんなさい): (please) look, (please) try to do 御(お): honorific prefix 御辞儀(おじぎ): bow 御中(おんちゅう): and Company, Messrs. 御免(ごめん): your pardon, declining (something), dismissal, permission 御覧(ごらん): look, inspection, try 朝御飯(あさごはん): breakfast 御主人(ごしゅじん): (polite) your husband, her husband 御飯(ごはん): rice (cooked), meal 晩御飯(ばんごはん): dinner, evening meal 昼御飯(ひるごはん): lunch, midday meal Kunyomi: おん-、お-、み- Onyomi: ギョ、ゴ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 御者 (ぎょしゃ), 制御 (せいぎょ), 御 (おん)	honorable 御 画数12 1500 Details Story Dictionary 御 honorable Heisig's Line . . . wholesale. Koohii #1 An honorable man will not try to cut in front of the line at the wholesale stamp store. (Imagine just how much honor it takes facing those long lines at the post office!). Koohii #2 If a trader has an honorable reputation- then people will line up to buy his wholesale goods. Primitives honorable, Nelson, column, going, line, wholesale, horseshoe, pantomime horse, noon, sign of the horse, stop, footprint, stamp 御負け(おまけ): a discount, a prize, something additional, bonus, an extra, an exaggeration 御(ご): go-, honourable 御馳走(ごちそう): feast, treating (someone) 御免ください(ごめんください): May I come in? 御免なさい(ごめんなさい): I beg your pardon, excuse me 御覧なさい(ごらんなさい): (please) look, (please) try to do 御(お): honorific prefix 御辞儀(おじぎ): bow 御中(おんちゅう): and Company, Messrs. 御免(ごめん): your pardon, declining (something), dismissal, permission 御覧(ごらん): look, inspection, try 朝御飯(あさごはん): breakfast 御主人(ごしゅじん): (polite) your husband, her husband 御飯(ごはん): rice (cooked), meal 晩御飯(ばんごはん): dinner, evening meal 昼御飯(ひるごはん): lunch, midday meal Kunyomi: おん-、お-、み- Onyomi: ギョ、ゴ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 御者 (ぎょしゃ), 制御 (せいぎょ), 御 (おん)
clothing Details Story Dictionary 服 clothing My Story You gotta have a *wardrobe* of clothing to cover your *organs*, so you don't get arrested. Koohii #1 It´s customary to cover the flesh with clothing, but some designs are so outrageous they´re not bigger than a stamp that just covers your crotch. Koohii #2 Modern clothing shows a lot of flesh -- some is practically no more than a postage stamp covering your crotch! Primitives clothing, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, underpants, stamp, crotch 軍服(ぐんぷく): military or naval uniform 征服(せいふく): conquest, subjugation, overcoming 制服(せいふく): uniform 不服(ふふく): dissatisfaction, discontent, disapproval, objection, complaint, protest, disagreement 衣服(いふく): clothes 克服(こくふく): subjugation, conquest 服装(ふくそう): garments 和服(わふく): Japanese clothes 服(ふく): clothes 洋服(ようふく): Western-style clothes Kunyomi: Onyomi: フク Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:	clothing 服 画数8 1501 Details Story Dictionary 服 clothing My Story You gotta have a *wardrobe* of clothing to cover your *organs*, so you don't get arrested. Koohii #1 It´s customary to cover the flesh with clothing, but some designs are so outrageous they´re not bigger than a stamp that just covers your crotch. Koohii #2 Modern clothing shows a lot of flesh -- some is practically no more than a postage stamp covering your crotch! Primitives clothing, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, underpants, stamp, crotch 軍服(ぐんぷく): military or naval uniform 征服(せいふく): conquest, subjugation, overcoming 制服(せいふく): uniform 不服(ふふく): dissatisfaction, discontent, disapproval, objection, complaint, protest, disagreement 衣服(いふく): clothes 克服(こくふく): subjugation, conquest 服装(ふくそう): garments 和服(わふく): Japanese clothes 服(ふく): clothes 洋服(ようふく): Western-style clothes Kunyomi: Onyomi: フク Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:
fate Details Story Dictionary 命 fate Heisig's This character connotes life in general, but also the particular life that is fated one by virtue of the distinctive character with which one is born. Its elements are: fit . . . stamp. The bottom portion of fit is nudged to the left in order to make room for the stamp. Koohii #1 When you´re born, your fate is measured, fitted, and stamped onto your soul. Good luck defying it. Koohii #2 Your ability to resist FATE can be fit on a postage stamp. Primitives fate, fit, meeting, umbrella, one, mouth, stamp 運命(うんめい): fate 革命(かくめい): revolution 使命(しめい): mission, errand, message 宿命(しゅくめい): fate, destiny, predestination 任命(にんめい): appointment, nomination, ordination, commission, designation 命中(めいちゅう): a hit 命(いのち): (mortal) life 寿命(じゅみょう): life span 人命(じんめい): (human) life 生命(せいめい): life, existence 命じる(めいじる): to order, command, appoint 命ずる(めいずる): to command, appoint 命令(めいれい): order, command, decree, directive, (software) instruction 一生懸命(いっしょうけんめい): as well as one can, as hard as one can Kunyomi: いのち Onyomi: メイ、ミョウ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 命令 (めいれい), 運命 (うんめい), 生命 (せいめい), 命 (いのち)	fate 命 画数8 1502 Details Story Dictionary 命 fate Heisig's This character connotes life in general, but also the particular life that is fated one by virtue of the distinctive character with which one is born. Its elements are: fit . . . stamp. The bottom portion of fit is nudged to the left in order to make room for the stamp. Koohii #1 When you´re born, your fate is measured, fitted, and stamped onto your soul. Good luck defying it. Koohii #2 Your ability to resist FATE can be fit on a postage stamp. Primitives fate, fit, meeting, umbrella, one, mouth, stamp 運命(うんめい): fate 革命(かくめい): revolution 使命(しめい): mission, errand, message 宿命(しゅくめい): fate, destiny, predestination 任命(にんめい): appointment, nomination, ordination, commission, designation 命中(めいちゅう): a hit 命(いのち): (mortal) life 寿命(じゅみょう): life span 人命(じんめい): (human) life 生命(せいめい): life, existence 命じる(めいじる): to order, command, appoint 命ずる(めいずる): to command, appoint 命令(めいれい): order, command, decree, directive, (software) instruction 一生懸命(いっしょうけんめい): as well as one can, as hard as one can Kunyomi: いのち Onyomi: メイ、ミョウ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 命令 (めいれい), 運命 (うんめい), 生命 (せいめい), 命 (いのち)
"orders Details Story Dictionary 令 orders Heisig's Meeting . . . chop-seal. Koohii #1 (re: dingomick) ""These are your orders,"" declares the general while passing out documents at the meeting. As everyone started to leave, the general exclaims ""Oh wait! I need to certify these orders!"" and went around stamping each paper with his personal chop-seal. Koohii #2 These are your orders, declares the general at the meeting as he stamps them with his chop-seal. (Primitive: chop-seal imaged as a papal ring, the one´s they would press into wax as their official seal. Also a cattle brand.). Primitives orders, meeting, chop-seal, hanko 指令(しれい): orders, instructions, directive 仮令(たとえ): example, even if, if, though, although 命令(めいれい): order, command, decree, directive, (software) instruction Kunyomi: Onyomi: レイ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"orders 令 画数5 1503 Details Story Dictionary 令 orders Heisig's Meeting . . . chop-seal. Koohii #1 (re: dingomick) ""These are your orders,"" declares the general while passing out documents at the meeting. As everyone started to leave, the general exclaims ""Oh wait! I need to certify these orders!"" and went around stamping each paper with his personal chop-seal. Koohii #2 These are your orders, declares the general at the meeting as he stamps them with his chop-seal. (Primitive: chop-seal imaged as a papal ring, the one´s they would press into wax as their official seal. Also a cattle brand.). Primitives orders, meeting, chop-seal, hanko 指令(しれい): orders, instructions, directive 仮令(たとえ): example, even if, if, though, although 命令(めいれい): order, command, decree, directive, (software) instruction Kunyomi: Onyomi: レイ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
zero Details Story Dictionary 零 zero Heisig's Rain . . . orders. Koohii #1 The amount of people that can order the rain to rain. Koohii #2 Despite the rain, the zero pilot flies on. He has kamikaze orders. Primitives zero, rain, weather, orders, meeting, chop-seal, hanko 零す(こぼす): to spill 零れる(こぼれる): to overflow, to spill 零点(れいてん): zero, no marks 零(れい): zero, nought Kunyomi: ぜろ、こぼ.す、こぼ.れる Onyomi: レイ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	zero 零 画数13 1504 Details Story Dictionary 零 zero Heisig's Rain . . . orders. Koohii #1 The amount of people that can order the rain to rain. Koohii #2 Despite the rain, the zero pilot flies on. He has kamikaze orders. Primitives zero, rain, weather, orders, meeting, chop-seal, hanko 零す(こぼす): to spill 零れる(こぼれる): to overflow, to spill 零点(れいてん): zero, no marks 零(れい): zero, nought Kunyomi: ぜろ、こぼ.す、こぼ.れる Onyomi: レイ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
age Details Story Dictionary 齢 age Heisig's This character is used to express the years of one's age. Its elements: teeth . . . orders. Koohii #1 You know you are fast approaching a ripe old AGE when you get ORDERS from the dentist to get new TEETH. Koohii #2 This has the nuance of a life milestone. Here it's represented by the life-cycle of teeth: In childhood, your teeth give the orders, growing whenever they want. As a teenager, we give orders to the teeth, by putting braces on them. In old age, we order new teeth! Primitives age, teeth, tooth, stop, footprint, rice, shovel, orders, meeting, chop-seal, hanko 年齢(ねんれい): age, years Kunyomi: よわ.い、とし Onyomi: レイ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	age 齢 画数17 1505 Details Story Dictionary 齢 age Heisig's This character is used to express the years of one's age. Its elements: teeth . . . orders. Koohii #1 You know you are fast approaching a ripe old AGE when you get ORDERS from the dentist to get new TEETH. Koohii #2 This has the nuance of a life milestone. Here it's represented by the life-cycle of teeth: In childhood, your teeth give the orders, growing whenever they want. As a teenager, we give orders to the teeth, by putting braces on them. In old age, we order new teeth! Primitives age, teeth, tooth, stop, footprint, rice, shovel, orders, meeting, chop-seal, hanko 年齢(ねんれい): age, years Kunyomi: よわ.い、とし Onyomi: レイ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
cool Details Story Dictionary 冷 cool Heisig's Ice . . . orders. Koohii #1 To keep your water cool, just order some ice. Koohii #2 The Japanese boss gives an order at the meeting: eat ice to stay cool (since they won´t be running the air conditioning anymore). Primitives cool, ice, orders, meeting, chop-seal, hanko 冷やかす(ひやかす): to banter, to make fun of, to jeer at, to cool, to refrigerate 冷酷(れいこく): cruelty, coldheartedness, relentless, ruthless 冷蔵(れいぞう): cold storage, refrigeration 冷淡(れいたん): coolness, indifference 冷ます(さます): cool, dampen, let cool, throw a damper on, spoil 冷める(さめる): become cool, wear off, abate, subside, dampen 冷やす(ひやす): cool, refrigerate 冷静(れいせい): calm, composure, coolness, serenity 冷凍(れいとう): freezing, cold storage, refrigeration 冷房(れいぼう): cooling, air-conditioning 冷える(ひえる): get cold 冷たい(つめたい): cold (to the touch), chilly, icy, freezing, coldhearted 冷蔵庫(れいぞうこ): refrigerator Kunyomi: つめ.たい、ひ.える、ひ.や、ひ.ややか、ひ.やす、ひ.やかす、さ.める、さ.ます Onyomi: レイ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 冷ます (さ.ます), 冷める (さ.める), 冷たい (つめ.たい), 冷える (ひ.える), 冷や (ひ.や), 冷やかす (ひ.やかす), 冷やす (ひ.やす)	cool 冷 画数7 1506 Details Story Dictionary 冷 cool Heisig's Ice . . . orders. Koohii #1 To keep your water cool, just order some ice. Koohii #2 The Japanese boss gives an order at the meeting: eat ice to stay cool (since they won´t be running the air conditioning anymore). Primitives cool, ice, orders, meeting, chop-seal, hanko 冷やかす(ひやかす): to banter, to make fun of, to jeer at, to cool, to refrigerate 冷酷(れいこく): cruelty, coldheartedness, relentless, ruthless 冷蔵(れいぞう): cold storage, refrigeration 冷淡(れいたん): coolness, indifference 冷ます(さます): cool, dampen, let cool, throw a damper on, spoil 冷める(さめる): become cool, wear off, abate, subside, dampen 冷やす(ひやす): cool, refrigerate 冷静(れいせい): calm, composure, coolness, serenity 冷凍(れいとう): freezing, cold storage, refrigeration 冷房(れいぼう): cooling, air-conditioning 冷える(ひえる): get cold 冷たい(つめたい): cold (to the touch), chilly, icy, freezing, coldhearted 冷蔵庫(れいぞうこ): refrigerator Kunyomi: つめ.たい、ひ.える、ひ.や、ひ.ややか、ひ.やす、ひ.やかす、さ.める、さ.ます Onyomi: レイ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 冷ます (さ.ます), 冷める (さ.める), 冷たい (つめ.たい), 冷える (ひ.える), 冷や (ひ.や), 冷やかす (ひ.やかす), 冷やす (ひ.やす)
jurisdiction / territory Details Story Dictionary 領 jurisdiction / territory My Story [Command/order + Head/Page] *Commands* are given by the *head* person in any #jurisdiction#. Koohii #1 Two cowboys are crossing a state limit. One says to him “Did you know that in this Jurisdiction there are Orders to get your head?”, so he takes out his gun and shoots him. He claims the reward afterwards. (Thanks Fuaburisu). Koohii #2 Orders are given by the head person in any jurisdiction. Primitives jurisdiction, orders, meeting, chop-seal, hanko, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 占領(せんりょう): occupation, capture, possession, have a room to oneself 領域(りょういき): area, domain, territory, field, region, regime 領海(りょうかい): territorial waters 領地(りょうち): territory, dominion 領土(りょうど): dominion, territory, possession 大統領(だいとうりょう): president, chief executive 要領(ようりょう): point, gist, essentials, outline 領事(りょうじ): consul 領収(りょうしゅう): receipt, voucher Kunyomi: えり Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	jurisdiction / territory 領 画数14 1507 Details Story Dictionary 領 jurisdiction / territory My Story [Command/order + Head/Page] *Commands* are given by the *head* person in any #jurisdiction#. Koohii #1 Two cowboys are crossing a state limit. One says to him “Did you know that in this Jurisdiction there are Orders to get your head?”, so he takes out his gun and shoots him. He claims the reward afterwards. (Thanks Fuaburisu). Koohii #2 Orders are given by the head person in any jurisdiction. Primitives jurisdiction, orders, meeting, chop-seal, hanko, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 占領(せんりょう): occupation, capture, possession, have a room to oneself 領域(りょういき): area, domain, territory, field, region, regime 領海(りょうかい): territorial waters 領地(りょうち): territory, dominion 領土(りょうど): dominion, territory, possession 大統領(だいとうりょう): president, chief executive 要領(ようりょう): point, gist, essentials, outline 領事(りょうじ): consul 領収(りょうしゅう): receipt, voucher Kunyomi: えり Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
small bell Details Story Dictionary 鈴 small bell Heisig's Gold . . . orders. Koohii #1 Some restaurants have a small gold bell to call someone to take customers´ orders. Koohii #2 In high society, people ring a small golden bell to call their servants and give their orders. Primitives small bell, metal, gold, orders, meeting, chop-seal, hanko 鈴(すず): bell Kunyomi: すず Onyomi: レイ、リン Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 電鈴 (でんれい), 振鈴 (しんすず), 予鈴 (よれい), 鈴 (すず)	small bell 鈴 画数13 1508 Details Story Dictionary 鈴 small bell Heisig's Gold . . . orders. Koohii #1 Some restaurants have a small gold bell to call someone to take customers´ orders. Koohii #2 In high society, people ring a small golden bell to call their servants and give their orders. Primitives small bell, metal, gold, orders, meeting, chop-seal, hanko 鈴(すず): bell Kunyomi: すず Onyomi: レイ、リン Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 電鈴 (でんれい), 振鈴 (しんすず), 予鈴 (よれい), 鈴 (すず)
courage Details Story Dictionary 勇 courage Heisig's Chop-seal . . . man. Koohii #1 I imagined some kind of initiation rite in old China, where every young man has to show his courage. They then receive a chopseal which is a mark of their courage. Koohii #2 Re: fuaburisu - The initiation rite in question is actually a reverse elbow chop to the brain, and you receive the chop seal if you have the power to withstand it. This initial imagery helps me with the altered chop seal and vertical placement. Primitives courage, chop-seal, hanko, male, rice field, brains, power, muscle, arnold 勇敢(ゆうかん): bravery, heroism, gallantry 勇ましい(いさましい): brave, valiant, gallant, courageous 勇気(ゆうき): courage, bravery, valour, nerve, boldness Kunyomi: いさ.む Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 勇む (いさ.む)	courage 勇 画数9 1509 Details Story Dictionary 勇 courage Heisig's Chop-seal . . . man. Koohii #1 I imagined some kind of initiation rite in old China, where every young man has to show his courage. They then receive a chopseal which is a mark of their courage. Koohii #2 Re: fuaburisu - The initiation rite in question is actually a reverse elbow chop to the brain, and you receive the chop seal if you have the power to withstand it. This initial imagery helps me with the altered chop seal and vertical placement. Primitives courage, chop-seal, hanko, male, rice field, brains, power, muscle, arnold 勇敢(ゆうかん): bravery, heroism, gallantry 勇ましい(いさましい): brave, valiant, gallant, courageous 勇気(ゆうき): courage, bravery, valour, nerve, boldness Kunyomi: いさ.む Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 勇む (いさ.む)
bubble up Details Story Dictionary 湧 bubble up Heisig's Water . . . courage. Koohii #1 The courageous man who went into the water to save a drowning victim couldn´t be seen, except by the air that bubbled up. Koohii #2 Bubble up the WATER and see who has the COURAGE to jump into it. Primitives bubble up, water, water droplets, water pistol, courageous, courage, chop-seal, hanko, male, rice field, brains, power, muscle, arnold 湧く(わく): boil, grow hot, get excited, gush forth Kunyomi: わ.く Onyomi: ユウ、ヨウ、ユ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 湧く (わ.く)	bubble up 湧 画数12 1510 Details Story Dictionary 湧 bubble up Heisig's Water . . . courage. Koohii #1 The courageous man who went into the water to save a drowning victim couldn´t be seen, except by the air that bubbled up. Koohii #2 Bubble up the WATER and see who has the COURAGE to jump into it. Primitives bubble up, water, water droplets, water pistol, courageous, courage, chop-seal, hanko, male, rice field, brains, power, muscle, arnold 湧く(わく): boil, grow hot, get excited, gush forth Kunyomi: わ.く Onyomi: ユウ、ヨウ、ユ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 湧く (わ.く)
traffic Details Story Dictionary 通 traffic My Story If yo *MA*MA and her *elephant* ass dont start *moving*, traffic will be the last of worries. Koohii #1 I bounce down the road on my pogo stick, easily getting through the dense traffic. (Note: New primitive: chop-seal + utilize = pogo stick. Because a chop-seal is long and thin with a rubbery bit at the end. If it were big enough, you could utilize it as a pogo stick). [Edit: pogo stick also appears in 1409, 1690, 2530]. Koohii #2 Building on gorgon´s story I now change mine to a much more silly and rememberable one. The Chinese police is using a helicopter to check and regulate the traffic. Hanging from the helicopter is a huge chopseal that they utilize to mark some of the cars that are causing trouble on the road. Primitives traffic, pogo stick, chop-seal, hanko, utilise, utilize, road 通(つう): connoisseur, counter for letters 通常(つうじょう): common, general, usually 通りかかる(とおりかかる): to happen to pass by 似通う(にかよう): to resemble closely 見通し(みとおし): perspective, unobstructed view, outlook, forecast, prospect, insight 遣り通す(やりとおす): to carry through, to achieve, to complete 融通(ゆうずう): lending (money), accommodation, adaptability, versatility, finance 流通(りゅうつう): circulation of money or goods, flow of water or air, distribution 大通り(おおどおり): main street 開通(かいつう): opening, open 共通(きょうつう): commonness, community 交通機関(こうつうきかん): transportation facilities 透き通る(すきとおる): be or become transparent 直通(ちょくつう): direct communication 通過(つうか): passage through, passing 通貨(つうか): currency 通学(つうがく): commuting to school 通勤(つうきん): commuting to work 通行(つうこう): passage, passing 通じる(つうじる): run to, lead to, communicate, understand, be well-informed 通信(つうしん): correspondence, communication, news, signal 通ずる(つうずる): run to, lead to, communicate, understand, be well-informed 通知(つうち): notice, notification 通帳(つうちょう): passbook 通訳(つうやく): interpretation 通用(つうよう): popular use, circulation 通路(つうろ): passage, pathway 通す(とおす): let pass, overlook, continue, keep, make way for, persist in 通り掛かる(とおりかかる): happen to pass by 通り過ぎる(とおりすぎる): pass, pass through 一通り(ひととおり): ordinary, usual, in general, briefly 人通り(ひとどおり): pedestrian traffic 不通(ふつう): suspension, interruption, stoppage, tie-up, cessation 通う(かよう): go to (school, work) 交通(こうつう): traffic 通り(とおり): street, road 通る(とおる): pass, go along 普通(ふつう): normally, usually Kunyomi: とお.る、とお.り、-とお.り、-どお.り、とお.す、とお.し、-どお.し、かよ.う Onyomi: ツウ、ツ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 通行 (つうこう), 通読 (つうどく), 普通 (ふつう), 通う (かよ.う), 通す (とお.す), 通る (とお.る)	traffic 通 画数10 1511 Details Story Dictionary 通 traffic My Story If yo *MA*MA and her *elephant* ass dont start *moving*, traffic will be the last of worries. Koohii #1 I bounce down the road on my pogo stick, easily getting through the dense traffic. (Note: New primitive: chop-seal + utilize = pogo stick. Because a chop-seal is long and thin with a rubbery bit at the end. If it were big enough, you could utilize it as a pogo stick). [Edit: pogo stick also appears in 1409, 1690, 2530]. Koohii #2 Building on gorgon´s story I now change mine to a much more silly and rememberable one. The Chinese police is using a helicopter to check and regulate the traffic. Hanging from the helicopter is a huge chopseal that they utilize to mark some of the cars that are causing trouble on the road. Primitives traffic, pogo stick, chop-seal, hanko, utilise, utilize, road 通(つう): connoisseur, counter for letters 通常(つうじょう): common, general, usually 通りかかる(とおりかかる): to happen to pass by 似通う(にかよう): to resemble closely 見通し(みとおし): perspective, unobstructed view, outlook, forecast, prospect, insight 遣り通す(やりとおす): to carry through, to achieve, to complete 融通(ゆうずう): lending (money), accommodation, adaptability, versatility, finance 流通(りゅうつう): circulation of money or goods, flow of water or air, distribution 大通り(おおどおり): main street 開通(かいつう): opening, open 共通(きょうつう): commonness, community 交通機関(こうつうきかん): transportation facilities 透き通る(すきとおる): be or become transparent 直通(ちょくつう): direct communication 通過(つうか): passage through, passing 通貨(つうか): currency 通学(つうがく): commuting to school 通勤(つうきん): commuting to work 通行(つうこう): passage, passing 通じる(つうじる): run to, lead to, communicate, understand, be well-informed 通信(つうしん): correspondence, communication, news, signal 通ずる(つうずる): run to, lead to, communicate, understand, be well-informed 通知(つうち): notice, notification 通帳(つうちょう): passbook 通訳(つうやく): interpretation 通用(つうよう): popular use, circulation 通路(つうろ): passage, pathway 通す(とおす): let pass, overlook, continue, keep, make way for, persist in 通り掛かる(とおりかかる): happen to pass by 通り過ぎる(とおりすぎる): pass, pass through 一通り(ひととおり): ordinary, usual, in general, briefly 人通り(ひとどおり): pedestrian traffic 不通(ふつう): suspension, interruption, stoppage, tie-up, cessation 通う(かよう): go to (school, work) 交通(こうつう): traffic 通り(とおり): street, road 通る(とおる): pass, go along 普通(ふつう): normally, usually Kunyomi: とお.る、とお.り、-とお.り、-どお.り、とお.す、とお.し、-どお.し、かよ.う Onyomi: ツウ、ツ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 通行 (つうこう), 通読 (つうどく), 普通 (ふつう), 通う (かよ.う), 通す (とお.す), 通る (とお.る)
"jump Details Story Dictionary 踊 jump My Story 踊る (to dance (2) ; to jump): With your mouth, stop passing through MA and her curvy elephant, while we are dancing Koohii #1 The winner of the long jump competition was disqualified when they found he used a pogo stick tied to his leg to jump further. Koohii #2 The high jumper has his wooden leg fitted with a pogo stick, and can now jump even higher. (See my note at traffic (#1408) for pogo stick). EDIT (2 years later): Keyword ""jump"" leads to confusion later on (see cjon256´s post), ""Dancing"" would be better (but be sure to keep it distinct from dance (#1774)). New Story: I was no good at dancing due to my wooden leg... until I had it fitted with a pogo stick! Primitives jump, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, pogo stick, chop-seal, hanko, utilise, utilize 踊り(おどり): dancing 踊る(おどる): to dance Kunyomi: おど.る Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 踊り (おど.り), 踊る (おど.る)"	"jump 踊 画数14 1512 Details Story Dictionary 踊 jump My Story 踊る (to dance (2) ; to jump): With your mouth, stop passing through MA and her curvy elephant, while we are dancing Koohii #1 The winner of the long jump competition was disqualified when they found he used a pogo stick tied to his leg to jump further. Koohii #2 The high jumper has his wooden leg fitted with a pogo stick, and can now jump even higher. (See my note at traffic (#1408) for pogo stick). EDIT (2 years later): Keyword ""jump"" leads to confusion later on (see cjon256´s post), ""Dancing"" would be better (but be sure to keep it distinct from dance (#1774)). New Story: I was no good at dancing due to my wooden leg... until I had it fitted with a pogo stick! Primitives jump, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, pogo stick, chop-seal, hanko, utilise, utilize 踊り(おどり): dancing 踊る(おどる): to dance Kunyomi: おど.る Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 踊り (おど.り), 踊る (おど.る)"
doubt Details Story Dictionary 疑 doubt Heisig's Spoon . . . dart . . . chop-seal . . . zoo. Koohii #1 (Katsuo) You come at the zoo entrance. ´Here sir, a spoon to feed the animals.´ cool ´and a dart(gun) in case stuff go wrong´ ....´ please chop-seal (sign) here for in case of accidents the zoo is not responsible.´ ´lion feeding time is. bla bla´ You are having serious doubts about if you still want to go into this zoo. Koohii #2 A very doubtful story: At the entrance to my local zoo they issue you with a special spoon (to feed the animals) and a dart gun (to defend yourself in case of animal attack). You must then hanko (seal) a document to say you’ve received both these items, only after which will they let you enter the zoo. (Oh, and if you forget your hanko, I doubt they’ll let you in). Primitives doubt, spoon, sitting on the ground, dart, drop, heavens, chop-seal, hanko, zoo, critters 疑惑(ぎわく): doubt, misgivings, distrust, suspicion 質疑(しつぎ): question 疑う(うたがう): doubt, distrust, be suspicious of, suspect 疑問(ぎもん): question, problem, doubt, guess Kunyomi: うたが.う Onyomi: ギ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 疑う (うたが.う)	doubt 疑 画数14 1513 Details Story Dictionary 疑 doubt Heisig's Spoon . . . dart . . . chop-seal . . . zoo. Koohii #1 (Katsuo) You come at the zoo entrance. ´Here sir, a spoon to feed the animals.´ cool ´and a dart(gun) in case stuff go wrong´ ....´ please chop-seal (sign) here for in case of accidents the zoo is not responsible.´ ´lion feeding time is. bla bla´ You are having serious doubts about if you still want to go into this zoo. Koohii #2 A very doubtful story: At the entrance to my local zoo they issue you with a special spoon (to feed the animals) and a dart gun (to defend yourself in case of animal attack). You must then hanko (seal) a document to say you’ve received both these items, only after which will they let you enter the zoo. (Oh, and if you forget your hanko, I doubt they’ll let you in). Primitives doubt, spoon, sitting on the ground, dart, drop, heavens, chop-seal, hanko, zoo, critters 疑惑(ぎわく): doubt, misgivings, distrust, suspicion 質疑(しつぎ): question 疑う(うたがう): doubt, distrust, be suspicious of, suspect 疑問(ぎもん): question, problem, doubt, guess Kunyomi: うたが.う Onyomi: ギ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 疑う (うたが.う)
mimic Details Story Dictionary 擬 mimic Heisig's Fingers . . . doubt. Koohii #1 Ask a MIMIC to give an impression of DOUBT, and he will no DOUBT scratch his head with his FINGER. Koohii #2 I doubt you can mimic all these animals with just your fingers: http://www.google.com/search?q=%22Raymond+Crowe%22+Letterman (shadow puppets -- you´ll love it!). Primitives mimic, finger, fingers, doubt, spoon, sitting on the ground, dart, drop, heavens, chop-seal, hanko, zoo, critters Kunyomi: まが.い、もど.き Onyomi: ギ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	mimic 擬 画数17 1514 Details Story Dictionary 擬 mimic Heisig's Fingers . . . doubt. Koohii #1 Ask a MIMIC to give an impression of DOUBT, and he will no DOUBT scratch his head with his FINGER. Koohii #2 I doubt you can mimic all these animals with just your fingers: http://www.google.com/search?q=%22Raymond+Crowe%22+Letterman (shadow puppets -- you´ll love it!). Primitives mimic, finger, fingers, doubt, spoon, sitting on the ground, dart, drop, heavens, chop-seal, hanko, zoo, critters Kunyomi: まが.い、もど.き Onyomi: ギ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
congeal Details Story Dictionary 凝 congeal Heisig's Ice . . . doubt. Koohii #1 I doubt that the jello would congeal sitting on the counter, so I placed it in the icebox. Koohii #2 Is there any doubt that ice is congealed stuff? Primitives congeal, ice, doubt, spoon, sitting on the ground, dart, drop, heavens, chop-seal, hanko, zoo, critters 凝らす(こごらす): to freeze, to congeal 凝る(こごる): to congeal, to freeze Kunyomi: こ.る、こ.らす、こご.らす、こご.らせる、こご.る Onyomi: ギョウ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 凝らす (こ.らす), 凝る (こ.る)	congeal 凝 画数16 1515 Details Story Dictionary 凝 congeal Heisig's Ice . . . doubt. Koohii #1 I doubt that the jello would congeal sitting on the counter, so I placed it in the icebox. Koohii #2 Is there any doubt that ice is congealed stuff? Primitives congeal, ice, doubt, spoon, sitting on the ground, dart, drop, heavens, chop-seal, hanko, zoo, critters 凝らす(こごらす): to freeze, to congeal 凝る(こごる): to congeal, to freeze Kunyomi: こ.る、こ.らす、こご.らす、こご.らせる、こご.る Onyomi: ギョウ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 凝らす (こ.らす), 凝る (こ.る)
pattern Details Story Dictionary 範 pattern Heisig's Bamboo . . . car . . . fingerprint. Koohii #1 This pattern made of bamboo is for a new model of car designed to leave as small an ecological fingerprint as possible. Koohii #2 I just had a new bamboo-leaf pattern spray-painted on my car. Don't touch it, you'll leave fingerprints! Primitives pattern, bamboo, car, fingerprint 規範(きはん): model, standard, pattern, norm, criterion, example 模範(もはん): exemplar, exemplification, exemplum, model, example 範囲(はんい): extent, scope, sphere, range Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	pattern 範 画数15 1516 Details Story Dictionary 範 pattern Heisig's Bamboo . . . car . . . fingerprint. Koohii #1 This pattern made of bamboo is for a new model of car designed to leave as small an ecological fingerprint as possible. Koohii #2 I just had a new bamboo-leaf pattern spray-painted on my car. Don't touch it, you'll leave fingerprints! Primitives pattern, bamboo, car, fingerprint 規範(きはん): model, standard, pattern, norm, criterion, example 模範(もはん): exemplar, exemplification, exemplum, model, example 範囲(はんい): extent, scope, sphere, range Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
crime Details Story Dictionary 犯 crime Heisig's Wild dogs . . . fingerprint. Koohii #1 Crimes can often be solved using the tools of dogs and fingerprints. Koohii #2 This crime gang has yet to be caught because their pack of wild dogs takes care of licking off the fingerprints from all the crime scenes. Primitives crime, pack of wild dogs, fingerprint 犯す(おかす): to commit, to perpetrate, to violate, to rape 犯罪(はんざい): crime 犯人(はんにん): offender, criminal 防犯(ぼうはん): prevention of crime Kunyomi: おか.す Onyomi: ハン、ボン Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 犯す (おか.す)	crime 犯 画数5 1517 Details Story Dictionary 犯 crime Heisig's Wild dogs . . . fingerprint. Koohii #1 Crimes can often be solved using the tools of dogs and fingerprints. Koohii #2 This crime gang has yet to be caught because their pack of wild dogs takes care of licking off the fingerprints from all the crime scenes. Primitives crime, pack of wild dogs, fingerprint 犯す(おかす): to commit, to perpetrate, to violate, to rape 犯罪(はんざい): crime 犯人(はんにん): offender, criminal 防犯(ぼうはん): prevention of crime Kunyomi: おか.す Onyomi: ハン、ボン Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 犯す (おか.す)
widespread Details Story Dictionary 氾 widespread Heisig's Water . . . fingerprint. Koohii #1 It´s a widespread belief that they cannot find fingerprints on a body that has been deposited in the water. Koohii #2 It´s a widespread belief that water takes away fingerprints. Primitives widespread, water, water droplets, water pistol, fingerprint 氾濫(はんらん): overflowing, flood Kunyomi: ひろ.がる Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	widespread 氾 画数5 1518 Details Story Dictionary 氾 widespread Heisig's Water . . . fingerprint. Koohii #1 It´s a widespread belief that they cannot find fingerprints on a body that has been deposited in the water. Koohii #2 It´s a widespread belief that water takes away fingerprints. Primitives widespread, water, water droplets, water pistol, fingerprint 氾濫(はんらん): overflowing, flood Kunyomi: ひろ.がる Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
unlucky Details Story Dictionary 厄 unlucky Heisig's Cliff . . . fingerprint. Koohii #1 Seeing some finger prints at the edge of a cliff, I wondered who that unlucky person was. Koohii #2 Sherlock Holmes is very unlucky: he just fell off a cliff while he was looking around for fingerprints. Primitives unlucky, cliff, fingerprint 厄介(やっかい): trouble, burden, care, bother, worry, dependence, support, kindness, obligation Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヤク Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	unlucky 厄 画数4 1519 Details Story Dictionary 厄 unlucky Heisig's Cliff . . . fingerprint. Koohii #1 Seeing some finger prints at the edge of a cliff, I wondered who that unlucky person was. Koohii #2 Sherlock Holmes is very unlucky: he just fell off a cliff while he was looking around for fingerprints. Primitives unlucky, cliff, fingerprint 厄介(やっかい): trouble, burden, care, bother, worry, dependence, support, kindness, obligation Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヤク Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
dangerous Details Story Dictionary 危 dangerous Heisig's Bound up . . . unlucky. Koohii #1 If you live a dangerous life, eventually you're bound to get unlucky. Koohii #2 While rock climbing you are bound to the cliff by just your fingerprints, which is why it´s so dangerous. Primitives dangerous, bound up, unlucky, cliff, fingerprint 危ぶむ(あやぶむ): to fear, to have misgivings, to be doubtful, to mistrust 危害(きがい): injury, harm, danger 危機(きき): crisis 危うい(あやうい): dangerous, watch out! 危険(きけん): danger 危ない(あぶない): dangerous, critical, grave, uncertain, unreliable, limping, narrow, close, watch out! Kunyomi: あぶ.ない、あや.うい、あや.ぶむ Onyomi: キ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 危ない (あぶ.ない), 危うい (あや.うい), 危ぶむ (あや.ぶむ)	dangerous 危 画数6 1520 Details Story Dictionary 危 dangerous Heisig's Bound up . . . unlucky. Koohii #1 If you live a dangerous life, eventually you're bound to get unlucky. Koohii #2 While rock climbing you are bound to the cliff by just your fingerprints, which is why it´s so dangerous. Primitives dangerous, bound up, unlucky, cliff, fingerprint 危ぶむ(あやぶむ): to fear, to have misgivings, to be doubtful, to mistrust 危害(きがい): injury, harm, danger 危機(きき): crisis 危うい(あやうい): dangerous, watch out! 危険(きけん): danger 危ない(あぶない): dangerous, critical, grave, uncertain, unreliable, limping, narrow, close, watch out! Kunyomi: あぶ.ない、あや.うい、あや.ぶむ Onyomi: キ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 危ない (あぶ.ない), 危うい (あや.うい), 危ぶむ (あや.ぶむ)
address Details Story Dictionary 宛 address My Story Your address is *crow* *evening*, *9*, zipcode Koohii #1 Your address should be displayed on your house and mailbox. Koohii #2 For the primitive: This is a hi-tech Japanese mailbox, it automatically lights up in the evening, and has a biometric fingerprint scanner. --- Each house´s address, even if it´s hard to see in the evening, is like its own unique fingerprint. Primitives address, house, mailbox, evening, fingerprint 宛(あて): addressed to 宛てる(あてる): to address 宛名(あてな): address, direction Kunyomi: あ.てる、-あて、-づつ、あたか.も Onyomi: エン Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 宛てる (あ.てる)	address 宛 画数8 1521 Details Story Dictionary 宛 address My Story Your address is *crow* *evening*, *9*, zipcode Koohii #1 Your address should be displayed on your house and mailbox. Koohii #2 For the primitive: This is a hi-tech Japanese mailbox, it automatically lights up in the evening, and has a biometric fingerprint scanner. --- Each house´s address, even if it´s hard to see in the evening, is like its own unique fingerprint. Primitives address, house, mailbox, evening, fingerprint 宛(あて): addressed to 宛てる(あてる): to address 宛名(あてな): address, direction Kunyomi: あ.てる、-あて、-づつ、あたか.も Onyomi: エン Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 宛てる (あ.てる)
arm Details Story Dictionary 腕 arm My Story I was drunk so I wrote my address on the flesh (*organ*) of my arm to show the taxi driver. Koohii #1 Like in Memento, I tattoo my address on my forearm flesh so I don´t forget it. Koohii #2 In Iraq people are having their addresses tattooed on their bodies, usually their arms, so they can be identified if they are killed. (true story). Primitives arm, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, address, house, mailbox, evening, fingerprint 腕前(うでまえ): ability, skill, facility 腕(うで): arm Kunyomi: うで Onyomi: ワン Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 腕 (うで)	arm 腕 画数12 1522 Details Story Dictionary 腕 arm My Story I was drunk so I wrote my address on the flesh (*organ*) of my arm to show the taxi driver. Koohii #1 Like in Memento, I tattoo my address on my forearm flesh so I don´t forget it. Koohii #2 In Iraq people are having their addresses tattooed on their bodies, usually their arms, so they can be identified if they are killed. (true story). Primitives arm, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, address, house, mailbox, evening, fingerprint 腕前(うでまえ): ability, skill, facility 腕(うで): arm Kunyomi: うで Onyomi: ワン Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 腕 (うで)
"garden Details Story Dictionary 苑 garden Heisig's Flowers . . . mailbox. Koohii #1 Japanese ""gardens"" aren´t anything more than a pot of flowers on top of the mailbox. Koohii #2 My mailbox is actually right in the middle of my garden, which kind of sucks since the mailman has to trample all my flowers to get to it. Primitives garden, flowers, mailbox, evening, fingerprint Kunyomi: その、う.つ Onyomi: エン、オン Lesson: 37 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"garden 苑 画数8 1523 Details Story Dictionary 苑 garden Heisig's Flowers . . . mailbox. Koohii #1 Japanese ""gardens"" aren´t anything more than a pot of flowers on top of the mailbox. Koohii #2 My mailbox is actually right in the middle of my garden, which kind of sucks since the mailman has to trample all my flowers to get to it. Primitives garden, flowers, mailbox, evening, fingerprint Kunyomi: その、う.つ Onyomi: エン、オン Lesson: 37 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
grudge Details Story Dictionary 怨 grudge Heisig's Mailbox . . . heart. Koohii #1 I couldn´t drop my grudge against him. So I put a severed pig´s heart in his mailbox. He got the message. Koohii #2 To hold a grudge is actually the act of keeping negative feelings you received in the mailbox of your heart. Primitives grudge, mailbox, evening, fingerprint, heart Kunyomi: うら.む、うらみ、うら.めしい Onyomi: エン、オン、ウン Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	grudge 怨 画数9 1524 Details Story Dictionary 怨 grudge Heisig's Mailbox . . . heart. Koohii #1 I couldn´t drop my grudge against him. So I put a severed pig´s heart in his mailbox. He got the message. Koohii #2 To hold a grudge is actually the act of keeping negative feelings you received in the mailbox of your heart. Primitives grudge, mailbox, evening, fingerprint, heart Kunyomi: うら.む、うらみ、うら.めしい Onyomi: エン、オン、ウン Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
willow Details Story Dictionary 柳 willow Heisig's Tree . . . receipt . . . stamp. Koohii #1 Having decided to use SIGN OF THE HARE rather than RECEIPT and STAMP my mnemonic goes as follows: The WILLOW is the TREE that droops likes a HARE´s ears. Koohii #2 A strange thing about the japanese willow tree is, it grows eggs... but the eggs have no yokes. weird eh? Primitives willow, tree, wood, blown eggs, sign of the hare, receipt, stamp Kunyomi: やなぎ Onyomi: リュウ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 柳 (やなぎ)	willow 柳 画数9 1525 Details Story Dictionary 柳 willow Heisig's Tree . . . receipt . . . stamp. Koohii #1 Having decided to use SIGN OF THE HARE rather than RECEIPT and STAMP my mnemonic goes as follows: The WILLOW is the TREE that droops likes a HARE´s ears. Koohii #2 A strange thing about the japanese willow tree is, it grows eggs... but the eggs have no yokes. weird eh? Primitives willow, tree, wood, blown eggs, sign of the hare, receipt, stamp Kunyomi: やなぎ Onyomi: リュウ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 柳 (やなぎ)
egg Details Story Dictionary 卵 egg Heisig's Receipt . . . stamp . . . and a drop in each side to represent a little smear of egg yoke. The third stroke is drawn slightly higher to close the egg up tightly and keep the yoke inside. Koohii #1 The Easter Bunny dropped an egg on my desk and got yolk all over my receipts and stamps. Koohii #2 The 卯sign of the hare (#2041) hides eggs in his ears for Easter...　RTK2:　ラン　卵巣　らんそう(ovary). Primitives egg, sign of the hare, receipt, stamp, drops 卵(たまご): egg(s), spawn, roe, (an expert) in the making Kunyomi: たまご Onyomi: ラン Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 卵 (たまご)	egg 卵 画数7 1526 Details Story Dictionary 卵 egg Heisig's Receipt . . . stamp . . . and a drop in each side to represent a little smear of egg yoke. The third stroke is drawn slightly higher to close the egg up tightly and keep the yoke inside. Koohii #1 The Easter Bunny dropped an egg on my desk and got yolk all over my receipts and stamps. Koohii #2 The 卯sign of the hare (#2041) hides eggs in his ears for Easter...　RTK2:　ラン　卵巣　らんそう(ovary). Primitives egg, sign of the hare, receipt, stamp, drops 卵(たまご): egg(s), spawn, roe, (an expert) in the making Kunyomi: たまご Onyomi: ラン Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 卵 (たまご)
detain Details Story Dictionary 留 detain Heisig's Receipt . . . dagger . . . rice field. Koohii #1 The use of RANSOM NOTE (think of a receipt with a dagger through it on a door) works great with DETAIN. Here the RANSOM NOTE says that the girl has been DETAINED in an undisclosed location. To get her back take the RANSOM to a empty FIELD. Koohii #2 Got a receipt for that dagger, son? If not, we´re going to detain you and send you to work in the rice fields. Primitives detain, receipt, sword, dagger, rice field, brains 加留多(かるた): (pt:) (n) playing cards (pt: carta) 蒸留(じょうりゅう): distillation 留める(とどめる): to stop, to cease, to put an end to 書留(かきとめ): writing down, putting on record 停留所(ていりゅうじょ): bus or tram stop 留まる(とどまる): remain, abide, stay (in the one place), come to a halt, be limited to, stop 留まる(とまる): fasten, turn off, detain 留学(りゅうがく): studying abroad 留守番(るすばん): care-taking, caretaker, house-watching 留守(るす): being away, be out (of one´s home or office) 留学生(りゅうがくせい): overseas student Kunyomi: と.める、と.まる、とど.める、とど.まる、るうぶる Onyomi: リュウ、ル Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 留意 (りゅうい), 留学 (りゅうがく), 保留 (ほりゅう), 留まる (と.まる), 留める (と.める)	detain 留 画数10 1527 Details Story Dictionary 留 detain Heisig's Receipt . . . dagger . . . rice field. Koohii #1 The use of RANSOM NOTE (think of a receipt with a dagger through it on a door) works great with DETAIN. Here the RANSOM NOTE says that the girl has been DETAINED in an undisclosed location. To get her back take the RANSOM to a empty FIELD. Koohii #2 Got a receipt for that dagger, son? If not, we´re going to detain you and send you to work in the rice fields. Primitives detain, receipt, sword, dagger, rice field, brains 加留多(かるた): (pt:) (n) playing cards (pt: carta) 蒸留(じょうりゅう): distillation 留める(とどめる): to stop, to cease, to put an end to 書留(かきとめ): writing down, putting on record 停留所(ていりゅうじょ): bus or tram stop 留まる(とどまる): remain, abide, stay (in the one place), come to a halt, be limited to, stop 留まる(とまる): fasten, turn off, detain 留学(りゅうがく): studying abroad 留守番(るすばん): care-taking, caretaker, house-watching 留守(るす): being away, be out (of one´s home or office) 留学生(りゅうがくせい): overseas student Kunyomi: と.める、と.まる、とど.める、とど.まる、るうぶる Onyomi: リュウ、ル Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 留意 (りゅうい), 留学 (りゅうがく), 保留 (ほりゅう), 留まる (と.まる), 留める (と.める)
marine blue Details Story Dictionary 瑠 marine blue Heisig's Jewel . . . detain. Koohii #1 “The king has been detained by some marines!” “How do you know they were marines?” “Because they were wearing marine blue.”. Koohii #2 The king was detained, by men in marine blue; Must be the marines, planning a coup. (thx Katsuo/gavmck). Primitives marine blue, king, jewel, ball, detain, receipt, dagger, sword, rice field, brains Kunyomi: Onyomi: ル、リュウ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	marine blue 瑠 画数14 1528 Details Story Dictionary 瑠 marine blue Heisig's Jewel . . . detain. Koohii #1 “The king has been detained by some marines!” “How do you know they were marines?” “Because they were wearing marine blue.”. Koohii #2 The king was detained, by men in marine blue; Must be the marines, planning a coup. (thx Katsuo/gavmck). Primitives marine blue, king, jewel, ball, detain, receipt, dagger, sword, rice field, brains Kunyomi: Onyomi: ル、リュウ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
trade Details Story Dictionary 貿 trade My Story [Top of 留, but the 田 becomes 貝] The bottom of 留, was traded to a 貝, giving the final kanji as 貿 Koohii #1 There´s a buyback program where you can trade in your dagger for money. But it´s quite ineffective, since only registered dagger-owners with the original receipts can participate, and not criminals with illegally-purchased daggers. Koohii #2 The new RANSOM note (a receipt stuck to a door with a dagger) from DETAIN (1423) appears again (probably after you went to the field as instructed) now gives instruction to TRADE the victim for CURRENCY you were told to bring. Primitives trade, receipt, sword, dagger, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 貿易(ぼうえき): trade Kunyomi: Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	trade 貿 画数12 1529 Details Story Dictionary 貿 trade My Story [Top of 留, but the 田 becomes 貝] The bottom of 留, was traded to a 貝, giving the final kanji as 貿 Koohii #1 There´s a buyback program where you can trade in your dagger for money. But it´s quite ineffective, since only registered dagger-owners with the original receipts can participate, and not criminals with illegally-purchased daggers. Koohii #2 The new RANSOM note (a receipt stuck to a door with a dagger) from DETAIN (1423) appears again (probably after you went to the field as instructed) now gives instruction to TRADE the victim for CURRENCY you were told to bring. Primitives trade, receipt, sword, dagger, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 貿易(ぼうえき): trade Kunyomi: Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
stamp Details Story Dictionary 印 stamp My Story A stamp for the 印velope of course! Koohii #1 Before sticky backs, they had to staple stamps to letters. Koohii #2 Aaaagh, this old stamp doesn´t stick! Okay I´ll just staple it. Primitives stamp, staples, stamp 印(いん): seal, stamp, mark, print 印鑑(いんかん): stamp, seal 調印(ちょういん): signature, sign, sealing 印刷(いんさつ): printing 印象(いんしょう): impression 印(しるし): seal, stamp, mark, print 目印(めじるし): mark, sign, landmark 矢印(やじるし): directing arrow Kunyomi: しるし、-じるし、しる.す Onyomi: イン Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 印 (しるし)	stamp 印 画数6 1530 Details Story Dictionary 印 stamp My Story A stamp for the 印velope of course! Koohii #1 Before sticky backs, they had to staple stamps to letters. Koohii #2 Aaaagh, this old stamp doesn´t stick! Okay I´ll just staple it. Primitives stamp, staples, stamp 印(いん): seal, stamp, mark, print 印鑑(いんかん): stamp, seal 調印(ちょういん): signature, sign, sealing 印刷(いんさつ): printing 印象(いんしょう): impression 印(しるし): seal, stamp, mark, print 目印(めじるし): mark, sign, landmark 矢印(やじるし): directing arrow Kunyomi: しるし、-じるし、しる.す Onyomi: イン Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 印 (しるし)
mortar Details Story Dictionary 臼 mortar Heisig's The image here is of back-to-back staples. The mortar referred to in this key word is a stone or wooden basin used for grinding with a pestle. Koohii #1 I removed all the back to back staples and grinded them in a mortar to create metal dust. Koohii #2 The mortar bomb exploded, ripping the sun in half. Primitives mortar, back to back staples Kunyomi: うす、うすづ.く Onyomi: キュウ、グ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 臼 (うす)	mortar 臼 画数6 1531 Details Story Dictionary 臼 mortar Heisig's The image here is of back-to-back staples. The mortar referred to in this key word is a stone or wooden basin used for grinding with a pestle. Koohii #1 I removed all the back to back staples and grinded them in a mortar to create metal dust. Koohii #2 The mortar bomb exploded, ripping the sun in half. Primitives mortar, back to back staples Kunyomi: うす、うすづ.く Onyomi: キュウ、グ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 臼 (うす)
"break Details Story Dictionary 毀 break Heisig's Mortar . . . soil . . . missile. Koohii #1 To ""break the soil"" is to make a symbolic gesture that indicates the beginning of construction. Like when a politician in a hardhat gets a shovel and lifts a piece of dirt. This particular project is behind schedule, so to speed things up, they blow it up with mortar and an air-to-ground missile. Koohii #2 Place your mortar on solid ground before firing missiles from it, otherwise it will break. Primitives break, mortar, soil, dirt, ground, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch Kunyomi: こぼ.つ、こわ.す、こぼ.れる、こわ.れる、そし.る、やぶ.る Onyomi: キ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"break 毀 画数13 1532 Details Story Dictionary 毀 break Heisig's Mortar . . . soil . . . missile. Koohii #1 To ""break the soil"" is to make a symbolic gesture that indicates the beginning of construction. Like when a politician in a hardhat gets a shovel and lifts a piece of dirt. This particular project is behind schedule, so to speed things up, they blow it up with mortar and an air-to-ground missile. Koohii #2 Place your mortar on solid ground before firing missiles from it, otherwise it will break. Primitives break, mortar, soil, dirt, ground, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch Kunyomi: こぼ.つ、こわ.す、こぼ.れる、こわ.れる、そし.る、やぶ.る Onyomi: キ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
entertain Details Story Dictionary 興 entertain My Story Long E sandwich: Same {同} / legs Koohii #1 To me, this looks like a pictograph of a road leading to the big city (see the buildings?) where there are plenty of places to be entertained. Unfortunately in this city, every store is the same: staples. What tools! [ayoung24]. Koohii #2 Photographically, this kanji simply looks like a set of two speakers (the staples primitives) between the sub-woofer (primitive for same) -- all this as a tool to entertain a group of drunks at a club. Primitives entertain, staples, same, monks, hood, one, mouth, tool, animal legs, eight 興じる(きょうじる): to amuse oneself, to make merry 興業(こうぎょう): industrial enterprise 興奮(こうふん): excitement, stimulation, agitation, arousal 新興(しんこう): rising, developing, emergent 振興(しんこう): promotion, encouragement 復興(ふっこう): revival, renaissance, reconstruction 余興(よきょう): side show, entertainment 興味(きょうみ): interest Kunyomi: おこ.る、おこ.す Onyomi: コウ、キョウ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 興行 (こうぎょう), 復興 (ふっこう), 振興 (しんこう), 興す (おこ.す), 興る (おこ.る)	entertain 興 画数16 1533 Details Story Dictionary 興 entertain My Story Long E sandwich: Same {同} / legs Koohii #1 To me, this looks like a pictograph of a road leading to the big city (see the buildings?) where there are plenty of places to be entertained. Unfortunately in this city, every store is the same: staples. What tools! [ayoung24]. Koohii #2 Photographically, this kanji simply looks like a set of two speakers (the staples primitives) between the sub-woofer (primitive for same) -- all this as a tool to entertain a group of drunks at a club. Primitives entertain, staples, same, monks, hood, one, mouth, tool, animal legs, eight 興じる(きょうじる): to amuse oneself, to make merry 興業(こうぎょう): industrial enterprise 興奮(こうふん): excitement, stimulation, agitation, arousal 新興(しんこう): rising, developing, emergent 振興(しんこう): promotion, encouragement 復興(ふっこう): revival, renaissance, reconstruction 余興(よきょう): side show, entertainment 興味(きょうみ): interest Kunyomi: おこ.る、おこ.す Onyomi: コウ、キョウ Lesson: 37 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 興行 (こうぎょう), 復興 (ふっこう), 振興 (しんこう), 興す (おこ.す), 興る (おこ.る)
"sign of the bird Details Story Dictionary 酉 sign of the bird Heisig's Though we shall later encounter the kanji for bird, we introduce this one for the tenth sign of the zodiac mainly because of its use as a primitive, where it has a different meaning. * As a primitive, it means whiskey bottle. In its pictograph, you can see the loosely corked lid, the bottle and the contents (about one-third full). You might also think of the Spanish ""porrón,"" a decanter shaped like a long-necked bird. Koohii #1 The sign of the bird on this whiskey bottle is of course the Famous Grouse blended Scotch. Koohii #2 Normally birds fly south, but one bird flew west. People were worried about it and kept asking ""Is there any sign of the bird – you know, the one that flew west?"". Primitives sign of the bird, whiskey bottle, west, one Kunyomi: とり Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"sign of the bird 酉 画数7 1534 Details Story Dictionary 酉 sign of the bird Heisig's Though we shall later encounter the kanji for bird, we introduce this one for the tenth sign of the zodiac mainly because of its use as a primitive, where it has a different meaning. * As a primitive, it means whiskey bottle. In its pictograph, you can see the loosely corked lid, the bottle and the contents (about one-third full). You might also think of the Spanish ""porrón,"" a decanter shaped like a long-necked bird. Koohii #1 The sign of the bird on this whiskey bottle is of course the Famous Grouse blended Scotch. Koohii #2 Normally birds fly south, but one bird flew west. People were worried about it and kept asking ""Is there any sign of the bird – you know, the one that flew west?"". Primitives sign of the bird, whiskey bottle, west, one Kunyomi: とり Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
saké Details Story Dictionary 酒 saké Heisig's Water . . . whiskey bottle. Koohii #1 Sake is just watered down whisky. Koohii #2 Sake is the generic term for alcohol (not just japanese rice wine). And a very popular alcoholic drink in Japan is whiskey and water. Primitives sake, water, water droplets, water pistol, whiskey bottle 酒場(さかば): bar, bar-room 酒(さけ): alcohol, sake お酒(おさけ): (polite) wine, sake Kunyomi: さけ、さか- Onyomi: シュ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 酒 (さけ)	saké 酒 画数10 1535 Details Story Dictionary 酒 saké Heisig's Water . . . whiskey bottle. Koohii #1 Sake is just watered down whisky. Koohii #2 Sake is the generic term for alcohol (not just japanese rice wine). And a very popular alcoholic drink in Japan is whiskey and water. Primitives sake, water, water droplets, water pistol, whiskey bottle 酒場(さかば): bar, bar-room 酒(さけ): alcohol, sake お酒(おさけ): (polite) wine, sake Kunyomi: さけ、さか- Onyomi: シュ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 酒 (さけ)
bartending Details Story Dictionary 酌 bartending Heisig's Whiskey bottle . . . ladle. Koohii #1 At the local pub, their bartending practises are unusual. They serve the whiskey by pouring it from a ladle, like one would from the punch bowl. Koohii #2 Ever seen the anime Bartender? Bartending isn´t just about bottles of whiskey, it´s about ladling out advice. Primitives bartending, whiskey bottle, ladle 酌む(くむ): serve sake Kunyomi: く.む Onyomi: シャク Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 酌む (く.む)	bartending 酌 画数10 1536 Details Story Dictionary 酌 bartending Heisig's Whiskey bottle . . . ladle. Koohii #1 At the local pub, their bartending practises are unusual. They serve the whiskey by pouring it from a ladle, like one would from the punch bowl. Koohii #2 Ever seen the anime Bartender? Bartending isn´t just about bottles of whiskey, it´s about ladling out advice. Primitives bartending, whiskey bottle, ladle 酌む(くむ): serve sake Kunyomi: く.む Onyomi: シャク Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 酌む (く.む)
"hooch Details Story Dictionary 酎 hooch Heisig's This kanji is used for thick, low-grade saké made from various kinds of grains. Its primitives are: whisky bottle . . . glue. Koohii #1 While the keyword is ""hooch"", this usually means 焼酎. It has similar effect as whiskey and sniffing glue has: you get intoxicated. Koohii #2 This thick, illicitly-made beverage is actually just whiskey mixed with glue! Primitives hooch, whiskey bottle, glue Kunyomi: かも.す Onyomi: チュウ、チュ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"hooch 酎 画数10 1537 Details Story Dictionary 酎 hooch Heisig's This kanji is used for thick, low-grade saké made from various kinds of grains. Its primitives are: whisky bottle . . . glue. Koohii #1 While the keyword is ""hooch"", this usually means 焼酎. It has similar effect as whiskey and sniffing glue has: you get intoxicated. Koohii #2 This thick, illicitly-made beverage is actually just whiskey mixed with glue! Primitives hooch, whiskey bottle, glue Kunyomi: かも.す Onyomi: チュウ、チュ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
fermentation Details Story Dictionary 酵 fermentation Heisig's Whiskey bottle . . . filial piety. Koohii #1 The secrets of fermentation are passed to the son who displays the most filial piety. Koohii #2 Since filial piety is all about respecting ones elders, and the older a whiskey bottle is (i.e. the time it have spent undergoing fermentation) the more respect you should give it, the meaning of this kanji becomes clear. If it doesn´t, sink back some whiskey and it will. Primitives fermentation, whiskey bottle, filial piety, old man, child Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	fermentation 酵 画数14 1538 Details Story Dictionary 酵 fermentation Heisig's Whiskey bottle . . . filial piety. Koohii #1 The secrets of fermentation are passed to the son who displays the most filial piety. Koohii #2 Since filial piety is all about respecting ones elders, and the older a whiskey bottle is (i.e. the time it have spent undergoing fermentation) the more respect you should give it, the meaning of this kanji becomes clear. If it doesn´t, sink back some whiskey and it will. Primitives fermentation, whiskey bottle, filial piety, old man, child Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
cruel Details Story Dictionary 酷 cruel Heisig's Whiskey bottle . . . revelation. Koohii #1 It´s cruel to pour alcohol down a cow´s mouth. Koohii #2 There is a saying that a drunk man's words are a sober man's thoughts. Be careful about giving someone a bottle of whiskey, you may get some revelations about their cruelty. Of course, they'll just say that it's the whiskey speaking. Primitives cruel, whiskey bottle, revelation, cow, mouth 残酷(ざんこく): cruelty, harshness 酷い(ひどい): cruel, awful, severe, very bad, serious, terrible, heavy, violent 冷酷(れいこく): cruelty, coldheartedness, relentless, ruthless Kunyomi: ひど.い Onyomi: コク Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	cruel 酷 画数14 1539 Details Story Dictionary 酷 cruel Heisig's Whiskey bottle . . . revelation. Koohii #1 It´s cruel to pour alcohol down a cow´s mouth. Koohii #2 There is a saying that a drunk man's words are a sober man's thoughts. Be careful about giving someone a bottle of whiskey, you may get some revelations about their cruelty. Of course, they'll just say that it's the whiskey speaking. Primitives cruel, whiskey bottle, revelation, cow, mouth 残酷(ざんこく): cruelty, harshness 酷い(ひどい): cruel, awful, severe, very bad, serious, terrible, heavy, violent 冷酷(れいこく): cruelty, coldheartedness, relentless, ruthless Kunyomi: ひど.い Onyomi: コク Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
repay Details Story Dictionary 酬 repay Heisig's Whiskey bottle . . . state. Koohii #1 Imagine a different kind of tax refund - instead of money, the state repays you with whiskey. Koohii #2 Hint: bottle deposit refund - the state will repay the recycling deposit for each alcohol bottle returned. Primitives repay, whiskey bottle, state, stream, drop, drop3 報酬(ほうしゅう): remuneration, recompense, reward, toll Kunyomi: むく.いる Onyomi: シュウ、シュ、トウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	repay 酬 画数13 1540 Details Story Dictionary 酬 repay Heisig's Whiskey bottle . . . state. Koohii #1 Imagine a different kind of tax refund - instead of money, the state repays you with whiskey. Koohii #2 Hint: bottle deposit refund - the state will repay the recycling deposit for each alcohol bottle returned. Primitives repay, whiskey bottle, state, stream, drop, drop3 報酬(ほうしゅう): remuneration, recompense, reward, toll Kunyomi: むく.いる Onyomi: シュウ、シュ、トウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"dairy products Details Story Dictionary 酪 dairy products Heisig's Whiskey bottle . . . each. Koohii #1 Imagine if at each supermarket you went to, the section for dairy products was next to the alcohol aisle. so for each wheel of cheese you decide to buy, you get an accompanying bottle of wine...perfect for a ""wine & cheese"" party. :). Koohii #2 In an attempt to increase sales of dairy products, the grocery store is giving away a free miniature whiskey bottle with each dairy product you buy. Primitives dairy products, whiskey bottle, each, walking legs, mouth 酪農(らくのう): dairy (farm) Kunyomi: Onyomi: ラク Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"dairy products 酪 画数13 1541 Details Story Dictionary 酪 dairy products Heisig's Whiskey bottle . . . each. Koohii #1 Imagine if at each supermarket you went to, the section for dairy products was next to the alcohol aisle. so for each wheel of cheese you decide to buy, you get an accompanying bottle of wine...perfect for a ""wine & cheese"" party. :). Koohii #2 In an attempt to increase sales of dairy products, the grocery store is giving away a free miniature whiskey bottle with each dairy product you buy. Primitives dairy products, whiskey bottle, each, walking legs, mouth 酪農(らくのう): dairy (farm) Kunyomi: Onyomi: ラク Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
vinegar Details Story Dictionary 酢 vinegar Heisig's Whiskey bottle . . . saw. Koohii #1 Drinking alcohol that´s turned to vinegar feels like a saw going down your throat. Koohii #2 I spent ages sawing that whiskey bottle open, but when I got in, it had all turned to vinegar! Primitives vinegar, whiskey bottle, saw 酢(す): vinegar Kunyomi: す Onyomi: サク Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 酢 (す)	vinegar 酢 画数12 1542 Details Story Dictionary 酢 vinegar Heisig's Whiskey bottle . . . saw. Koohii #1 Drinking alcohol that´s turned to vinegar feels like a saw going down your throat. Koohii #2 I spent ages sawing that whiskey bottle open, but when I got in, it had all turned to vinegar! Primitives vinegar, whiskey bottle, saw 酢(す): vinegar Kunyomi: す Onyomi: サク Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 酢 (す)
drunk Details Story Dictionary 酔 drunk Heisig's Whiskey bottle . . . baseball . . . needle. Koohii #1 God you´re drunk! How many whiskeys did you have? 9? 10? Koohii #2 Whiskey with 90 percent alcohol will get you drunk. I don´t care who you are. Primitives drunk, whiskey bottle, ninety, nine, baseball, ten, needle 麻酔(ますい): anaesthesia 酔う(よう): get drunk, become intoxicated 酔っ払い(よっぱらい): drunkard Kunyomi: よ.う、よ.い、よ Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 酔う (よ.う)	drunk 酔 画数11 1543 Details Story Dictionary 酔 drunk Heisig's Whiskey bottle . . . baseball . . . needle. Koohii #1 God you´re drunk! How many whiskeys did you have? 9? 10? Koohii #2 Whiskey with 90 percent alcohol will get you drunk. I don´t care who you are. Primitives drunk, whiskey bottle, ninety, nine, baseball, ten, needle 麻酔(ますい): anaesthesia 酔う(よう): get drunk, become intoxicated 酔っ払い(よっぱらい): drunkard Kunyomi: よ.う、よ.い、よ Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 酔う (よ.う)
distribute Details Story Dictionary 配 distribute My Story [Western alcoholic + Snake ] The *western alcoholic* tried illegally distributing *snake* wine Koohii #1 To DISTRIBUTE WHISKY during Prohibition you had to be as sneaky as a SNAKE. Koohii #2 I imagine a bartender serving whiskey to his patrons, and using that snake-like sprayer to distribute soda water into each glass. Primitives distribute, whiskey bottle, snake, self 気配(きはい): indication, market trend, worry 心配(しんぱい): worry, concern, anxiety, care 手配(てはい): arrangement, search (by police) 配給(はいきゅう): distribution (eg. films rice) 配偶者(はいぐうしゃ): spouse, wife, husband 配置(はいち): arrangement (of resources), disposition 配布(はいふ): distribution 配分(はいぶん): distribution, allotment 配慮(はいりょ): consideration, concern, forethought 配列(はいれつ): arrangement, array (programming) 分配(ぶんぱい): division, sharing 配る(くばる): deliver, distribute 気配(けはい): indication, market trend, worry 支配(しはい): rule, control, direction 配達(はいたつ): delivery, distribution Kunyomi: くば.る Onyomi: ハイ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 配る (くば.る)	distribute 配 画数10 1544 Details Story Dictionary 配 distribute My Story [Western alcoholic + Snake ] The *western alcoholic* tried illegally distributing *snake* wine Koohii #1 To DISTRIBUTE WHISKY during Prohibition you had to be as sneaky as a SNAKE. Koohii #2 I imagine a bartender serving whiskey to his patrons, and using that snake-like sprayer to distribute soda water into each glass. Primitives distribute, whiskey bottle, snake, self 気配(きはい): indication, market trend, worry 心配(しんぱい): worry, concern, anxiety, care 手配(てはい): arrangement, search (by police) 配給(はいきゅう): distribution (eg. films rice) 配偶者(はいぐうしゃ): spouse, wife, husband 配置(はいち): arrangement (of resources), disposition 配布(はいふ): distribution 配分(はいぶん): distribution, allotment 配慮(はいりょ): consideration, concern, forethought 配列(はいれつ): arrangement, array (programming) 分配(ぶんぱい): division, sharing 配る(くばる): deliver, distribute 気配(けはい): indication, market trend, worry 支配(しはい): rule, control, direction 配達(はいたつ): delivery, distribution Kunyomi: くば.る Onyomi: ハイ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 配る (くば.る)
acid Details Story Dictionary 酸 acid Heisig's Whiskey bottle . . . license . . . walking legs. Koohii #1 The prostitute carries an old whiskey bottle filled with acid to throw at any difficult Johns. Koohii #2 Dealing alcohol requires a license, dealing acid requires fast legs (to run from the police). Primitives acid, whiskey bottle, streetwalker, Ministry of silly walks, John Cleese, license, elbow, human legs, walking legs 酸(さん): acid 酸化(さんか): oxidation 酸素(さんそ): oxygen 酸っぱい(すっぱい): sour, acid 酸性(さんせい): acidity Kunyomi: す.い Onyomi: サン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 酸い (す.い)	acid 酸 画数14 1545 Details Story Dictionary 酸 acid Heisig's Whiskey bottle . . . license . . . walking legs. Koohii #1 The prostitute carries an old whiskey bottle filled with acid to throw at any difficult Johns. Koohii #2 Dealing alcohol requires a license, dealing acid requires fast legs (to run from the police). Primitives acid, whiskey bottle, streetwalker, Ministry of silly walks, John Cleese, license, elbow, human legs, walking legs 酸(さん): acid 酸化(さんか): oxidation 酸素(さんそ): oxygen 酸っぱい(すっぱい): sour, acid 酸性(さんせい): acidity Kunyomi: す.い Onyomi: サン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 酸い (す.い)
waver Details Story Dictionary 猶 waver Heisig's Wild dogs . . . animal horns . . . whiskey bottle. Koohii #1 The waver for this kanji means to hesitate. I wavered before going into the bar with a bunch of horned wild dogs drinking whiskey straight out of the bottle. Koohii #2 I wavered when the pack of wild dogs was blocking the way, but then I drank some Red Bull and charged through. (thanks shakkun). Primitives furthermore, waver, pack of wild dogs, chieftain, Molotov cocktail, animal horns, whiskey bottle Kunyomi: なお Onyomi: ユウ、ユ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	waver 猶 画数12 1546 Details Story Dictionary 猶 waver Heisig's Wild dogs . . . animal horns . . . whiskey bottle. Koohii #1 The waver for this kanji means to hesitate. I wavered before going into the bar with a bunch of horned wild dogs drinking whiskey straight out of the bottle. Koohii #2 I wavered when the pack of wild dogs was blocking the way, but then I drank some Red Bull and charged through. (thanks shakkun). Primitives furthermore, waver, pack of wild dogs, chieftain, Molotov cocktail, animal horns, whiskey bottle Kunyomi: なお Onyomi: ユウ、ユ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"revered / esteem Details Story Dictionary 尊 revered / esteem My Story [Horny Western Alcoholic (horns + west (with 2 lines)) + glue] The *Horny Western Alcoholic* was *glued* to マンコ, his self-#esteem# shot up after seeing porn Koohii #1 People don't know this, but (""revered"" patriot) Paul Revere had trouble staying awake during his midnight ride, so he drank Red Bull (horns) and whiskey (a drink invented by his friend Sam Adams) and glued himself DOWN to the saddle. [thanks to akahige]. Koohii #2 Red Bull, the chieftain (#2906) is so revered in his clan that everyone sticks to him like glue. Primitives revered, chieftain, Molotov cocktail, animal horns, whiskey bottle, glue 自尊心(じそんしん): self-respect, conceit 尊い(たっとい): precious, valuable, priceless, noble, exalted, sacred 尊ぶ(たっとぶ): to value, to prize, to esteem 尊敬(そんけい): respect, esteem, reverence, honour 尊重(そんちょう): respect, esteem, regard Kunyomi: たっと.い、とうと.い、たっと.ぶ、とうと.ぶ Onyomi: ソン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 尊い (たっと.い), 尊ぶ (たっと.ぶ), 尊い (とうと.い), 尊ぶ (とうと.ぶ)"	"revered / esteem 尊 画数12 1547 Details Story Dictionary 尊 revered / esteem My Story [Horny Western Alcoholic (horns + west (with 2 lines)) + glue] The *Horny Western Alcoholic* was *glued* to マンコ, his self-#esteem# shot up after seeing porn Koohii #1 People don't know this, but (""revered"" patriot) Paul Revere had trouble staying awake during his midnight ride, so he drank Red Bull (horns) and whiskey (a drink invented by his friend Sam Adams) and glued himself DOWN to the saddle. [thanks to akahige]. Koohii #2 Red Bull, the chieftain (#2906) is so revered in his clan that everyone sticks to him like glue. Primitives revered, chieftain, Molotov cocktail, animal horns, whiskey bottle, glue 自尊心(じそんしん): self-respect, conceit 尊い(たっとい): precious, valuable, priceless, noble, exalted, sacred 尊ぶ(たっとぶ): to value, to prize, to esteem 尊敬(そんけい): respect, esteem, reverence, honour 尊重(そんちょう): respect, esteem, regard Kunyomi: たっと.い、とうと.い、たっと.ぶ、とうと.ぶ Onyomi: ソン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 尊い (たっと.い), 尊ぶ (たっと.ぶ), 尊い (とうと.い), 尊ぶ (とうと.ぶ)"
beans Details Story Dictionary 豆 beans Heisig's This kanji depicts a pot of beans, although it looks more like a table on which the pot is resting. * As a primitive, this kanji will mean table. Koohii #1 If I eat BEANS, after ONE MOUTHful I fart like some kind of HORNED ANIMAL. Koohii #2 I hate using primitives that are completely unrelated. Let´s call this one Mr. Bean! He´s an easy character to build stories with. Primitives beans, table, one, mouth 豆(まめ): beans, peas, (as a prefix) miniature, tiny Kunyomi: まめ、まめ- Onyomi: トウ、ズ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 豆腐 (とうふ), 納豆 (なっとう), 豆 (まめ)	beans 豆 画数7 1548 Details Story Dictionary 豆 beans Heisig's This kanji depicts a pot of beans, although it looks more like a table on which the pot is resting. * As a primitive, this kanji will mean table. Koohii #1 If I eat BEANS, after ONE MOUTHful I fart like some kind of HORNED ANIMAL. Koohii #2 I hate using primitives that are completely unrelated. Let´s call this one Mr. Bean! He´s an easy character to build stories with. Primitives beans, table, one, mouth 豆(まめ): beans, peas, (as a prefix) miniature, tiny Kunyomi: まめ、まめ- Onyomi: トウ、ズ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 豆腐 (とうふ), 納豆 (なっとう), 豆 (まめ)
head Details Story Dictionary 頭 head My Story [Bean + Head/Page {頁}] Mr *Bean* gives good *head*. (NO HOMO) Koohii #1 The head of the family sits at the head of the table. Koohii #2 Mr Bean´s head. Primitives head, beans, table, one, mouth, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 街頭(がいとう): in the street 口頭(こうとう): oral 冒頭(ぼうとう): beginning, start, outset 頭痛(ずつう): headache 頭脳(ずのう): head, brains, intellect 先頭(せんとう): head, lead, vanguard, first 頭(あたま): head Kunyomi: あたま、かしら、-がしら、かぶり Onyomi: トウ、ズ、ト Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 頭部 (とうぶ), 年頭 (ねんとう), 船頭 (せんどう), 頭脳 (ずのう), 頭上 (ずじょう), 頭痛 (ずつう), 頭 (あたま), 頭 (かしら)	head 頭 画数16 1549 Details Story Dictionary 頭 head My Story [Bean + Head/Page {頁}] Mr *Bean* gives good *head*. (NO HOMO) Koohii #1 The head of the family sits at the head of the table. Koohii #2 Mr Bean´s head. Primitives head, beans, table, one, mouth, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 街頭(がいとう): in the street 口頭(こうとう): oral 冒頭(ぼうとう): beginning, start, outset 頭痛(ずつう): headache 頭脳(ずのう): head, brains, intellect 先頭(せんとう): head, lead, vanguard, first 頭(あたま): head Kunyomi: あたま、かしら、-がしら、かぶり Onyomi: トウ、ズ、ト Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 頭部 (とうぶ), 年頭 (ねんとう), 船頭 (せんどう), 頭脳 (ずのう), 頭上 (ずじょう), 頭痛 (ずつう), 頭 (あたま), 頭 (かしら)
short Details Story Dictionary 短 short My Story [Arrow + Bean] He is so short that his *arrow* shot Mr *bean* and not your mom Koohii #1 He is so short so he has to throw darts from the table. Koohii #2 Sort of like ping pong, this kanji represents a game where you throw darts over a table at your opponent. The serve is rarely returned, so the games tend to be short.------------ This character apparently refers to duration, not just to height. Primitives short, dart, drop, heavens, beans, table, one, mouth 短歌(たんか): tanka, 31-syllable Japanese poem 短気(たんき): quick temper 短縮(たんしゅく): shortening, abbreviation, reduction 短大(たんだい): junior college 短波(たんぱ): short wave 短期(たんき): short term 短所(たんしょ): defect, demerit, weak point, disadvantage 短編(たんぺん): short (e.g. story, film) 長短(ちょうたん): length, long and short, advantages and disadvantages, pluses and minuses, strong and weak points, merits and demerits 短い(みじかい): short Kunyomi: みじか.い Onyomi: タン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 短い (みじか.い)	short 短 画数12 1550 Details Story Dictionary 短 short My Story [Arrow + Bean] He is so short that his *arrow* shot Mr *bean* and not your mom Koohii #1 He is so short so he has to throw darts from the table. Koohii #2 Sort of like ping pong, this kanji represents a game where you throw darts over a table at your opponent. The serve is rarely returned, so the games tend to be short.------------ This character apparently refers to duration, not just to height. Primitives short, dart, drop, heavens, beans, table, one, mouth 短歌(たんか): tanka, 31-syllable Japanese poem 短気(たんき): quick temper 短縮(たんしゅく): shortening, abbreviation, reduction 短大(たんだい): junior college 短波(たんぱ): short wave 短期(たんき): short term 短所(たんしょ): defect, demerit, weak point, disadvantage 短編(たんぺん): short (e.g. story, film) 長短(ちょうたん): length, long and short, advantages and disadvantages, pluses and minuses, strong and weak points, merits and demerits 短い(みじかい): short Kunyomi: みじか.い Onyomi: タン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 短い (みじか.い)
bountiful Details Story Dictionary 豊 bountiful Heisig's Bend . . . table. Think of a bountiful harvest, and you will not be far from the meaning of this character. Koohii #1 The bountiful feast was so bountiful that it bent the table below it under its weight! いただきま〜す！. Koohii #2 Her bust and bum was so bountiful I couldn´t resist the urge to bend her over a nearby table and... Primitives bountiful, bend, beans, table, one, mouth 豊作(ほうさく): abundant harvest, bumper crop 豊富(ほうふ): abundance, wealth, plenty, bounty 豊か(ゆたか): abundant, wealthy, plentiful, rich Kunyomi: ゆた.か、とよ Onyomi: ホウ、ブ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 豊 (ゆたか)	bountiful 豊 画数13 1551 Details Story Dictionary 豊 bountiful Heisig's Bend . . . table. Think of a bountiful harvest, and you will not be far from the meaning of this character. Koohii #1 The bountiful feast was so bountiful that it bent the table below it under its weight! いただきま〜す！. Koohii #2 Her bust and bum was so bountiful I couldn´t resist the urge to bend her over a nearby table and... Primitives bountiful, bend, beans, table, one, mouth 豊作(ほうさく): abundant harvest, bumper crop 豊富(ほうふ): abundance, wealth, plenty, bounty 豊か(ゆたか): abundant, wealthy, plentiful, rich Kunyomi: ゆた.か、とよ Onyomi: ホウ、ブ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 豊 (ゆたか)
"drum Details Story Dictionary 鼓 drum Heisig's The full kanji for the drum adds a branch, apparently to serve as a drumstick, to the primitive for drum. Koohii #1 Japanese festivals have drums so big, a samurai has to SIT (not stand) on a table to beat one with a tree branch! http://www.d2.dion.ne.jp/~hidafyh/furukawayh/gyouji/image/maturi03.jpg. Koohii #2 I really hate the primitive meaning of ""table"" for ""bean."" I just use ""bean."" Anyways, for the DRUM primitive, imagine a SAMURAI who beats on a DRUM with two chopsticks, and a BEAN skewered on each end of the chopstick to produce a better sound. And the obvious story is: ""DRUMing on a DRUM with a huge BRANCH"". Primitives drum, samurai, beans, table, one, mouth, branch, ten, needle, crotch 太鼓(たいこ): drum, tambourine Kunyomi: つづみ Onyomi: コ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鼓 (つづみ)"	"drum 鼓 画数13 1552 Details Story Dictionary 鼓 drum Heisig's The full kanji for the drum adds a branch, apparently to serve as a drumstick, to the primitive for drum. Koohii #1 Japanese festivals have drums so big, a samurai has to SIT (not stand) on a table to beat one with a tree branch! http://www.d2.dion.ne.jp/~hidafyh/furukawayh/gyouji/image/maturi03.jpg. Koohii #2 I really hate the primitive meaning of ""table"" for ""bean."" I just use ""bean."" Anyways, for the DRUM primitive, imagine a SAMURAI who beats on a DRUM with two chopsticks, and a BEAN skewered on each end of the chopstick to produce a better sound. And the obvious story is: ""DRUMing on a DRUM with a huge BRANCH"". Primitives drum, samurai, beans, table, one, mouth, branch, ten, needle, crotch 太鼓(たいこ): drum, tambourine Kunyomi: つづみ Onyomi: コ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鼓 (つづみ)"
rejoice Details Story Dictionary 喜 rejoice Heisig's Drum . . . mouth. Koohii #1 The samurai sitting on the drum is on a stage, and the people below him are rejoicing with their mouths in unison. It helps me to imagine the placement this way. Koohii #2 In the taiko (drum (#1444)) song of rejoicing, the drummers shout with open mouths. Primitives rejoice, drum, samurai, beans, table, one, mouth, mouth, mouth2 喜劇(きげき): comedy, funny show 喜び(よろこび): joy, (a) delight, rapture, pleasure, gratification, rejoicing, congratulations, felicitations 喜ぶ(よろこぶ): be delighted Kunyomi: よろこ.ぶ、よろこ.ばす Onyomi: キ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 喜ぶ (よろこ.ぶ)	rejoice 喜 画数12 1553 Details Story Dictionary 喜 rejoice Heisig's Drum . . . mouth. Koohii #1 The samurai sitting on the drum is on a stage, and the people below him are rejoicing with their mouths in unison. It helps me to imagine the placement this way. Koohii #2 In the taiko (drum (#1444)) song of rejoicing, the drummers shout with open mouths. Primitives rejoice, drum, samurai, beans, table, one, mouth, mouth, mouth2 喜劇(きげき): comedy, funny show 喜び(よろこび): joy, (a) delight, rapture, pleasure, gratification, rejoicing, congratulations, felicitations 喜ぶ(よろこぶ): be delighted Kunyomi: よろこ.ぶ、よろこ.ばす Onyomi: キ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 喜ぶ (よろこ.ぶ)
"timber-trees Details Story Dictionary 樹 timber-trees Heisig's Trees . . . drum . . . glue. Koohii #1 The hippies object to trees being cut down for timber. They have glued themselves to the timber-trees and are beating their drums. Koohii #2 Everyone likes to see big trees fall down. For this kanji imagine hundreds of spectators glued to their chairs, then a drum roll and then a cry of ""timber!!!"" as the huge tree crashes to the ground. Primitives timber-trees, tree, wood, drum, samurai, beans, table, one, mouth, glue 樹木(じゅもく): trees and shrubs, arbour 樹立(じゅりつ): establish, create Kunyomi: き Onyomi: ジュ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"timber-trees 樹 画数16 1554 Details Story Dictionary 樹 timber-trees Heisig's Trees . . . drum . . . glue. Koohii #1 The hippies object to trees being cut down for timber. They have glued themselves to the timber-trees and are beating their drums. Koohii #2 Everyone likes to see big trees fall down. For this kanji imagine hundreds of spectators glued to their chairs, then a drum roll and then a cry of ""timber!!!"" as the huge tree crashes to the ground. Primitives timber-trees, tree, wood, drum, samurai, beans, table, one, mouth, glue 樹木(じゅもく): trees and shrubs, arbour 樹立(じゅりつ): establish, create Kunyomi: き Onyomi: ジュ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
dish Details Story Dictionary 皿 dish Heisig's The kanji for a dish is, clearly, the pictograph of a painted or carved bowl, seen from the side. Koohii #1 Three dishes stacked side-by-side in a dishwasher. Koohii #2 Pictograph of a dish with a three-layer cake slice on it. Primitives dish 灰皿(はいさら): ashtray 皿(さら): plate, dish お皿(おさら): (polite) dish, plate 灰皿(はいざら): ashtray Kunyomi: さら Onyomi: ベイ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 皿 (さら)	dish 皿 画数5 1555 Details Story Dictionary 皿 dish Heisig's The kanji for a dish is, clearly, the pictograph of a painted or carved bowl, seen from the side. Koohii #1 Three dishes stacked side-by-side in a dishwasher. Koohii #2 Pictograph of a dish with a three-layer cake slice on it. Primitives dish 灰皿(はいさら): ashtray 皿(さら): plate, dish お皿(おさら): (polite) dish, plate 灰皿(はいざら): ashtray Kunyomi: さら Onyomi: ベイ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 皿 (さら)
blood Details Story Dictionary 血 blood Heisig's The drop in the dish is blood. It is similar to the drop we saw earlier on the dagger in the character for blade (Frame 88). Koohii #1 Vampire orders blood in one of those posh restaurants. Imagine his shock when all he gets is a giant white bowl and just a single drop of blood in the centre and a drizzling of balsamic around the edge. Disgusted he calls the manager over tells him its overpriced tosh and bites into his neck with a huge gush of blood spraying everywhere. Koohii #2 Image: Holy Grail with a drop of Jesus blood on it. Primitives blood, drop, dish 血管(けっかん): blood vessel 混血(こんけつ): mixed race, mixed parentage 出血(しゅっけつ): bleeding, haemorrhage 血圧(けつあつ): blood pressure 血液(けつえき): blood 輸血(ゆけつ): blood transfusion 血(ち): blood Kunyomi: ち Onyomi: ケツ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 血 (ち)	blood 血 画数6 1556 Details Story Dictionary 血 blood Heisig's The drop in the dish is blood. It is similar to the drop we saw earlier on the dagger in the character for blade (Frame 88). Koohii #1 Vampire orders blood in one of those posh restaurants. Imagine his shock when all he gets is a giant white bowl and just a single drop of blood in the centre and a drizzling of balsamic around the edge. Disgusted he calls the manager over tells him its overpriced tosh and bites into his neck with a huge gush of blood spraying everywhere. Koohii #2 Image: Holy Grail with a drop of Jesus blood on it. Primitives blood, drop, dish 血管(けっかん): blood vessel 混血(こんけつ): mixed race, mixed parentage 出血(しゅっけつ): bleeding, haemorrhage 血圧(けつあつ): blood pressure 血液(けつえき): blood 輸血(ゆけつ): blood transfusion 血(ち): blood Kunyomi: ち Onyomi: ケツ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 血 (ち)
basin Details Story Dictionary 盆 basin Heisig's Part . . . dish. Koohii #1 The part of the kitchen sink in which you wash dishes in is the basin. Koohii #2 I'm not an expert, but it seems that as a basin this refers more to an oceanic basin that a kitchen one, and in any case seems most common in reference to the famous O-Bon festival. So, a story: in the O-Bon festival, so many dishes are broken that all the parts have to be thrown into a deep oceanic basin. Primitives basin, part, eight, sword, dagger, dish 盆(ぼん): Lantern Festival, Festival of the Dead, tray 盆地(ぼんち): basin (e.g. between mountains) Kunyomi: Onyomi: ボン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	basin 盆 画数9 1557 Details Story Dictionary 盆 basin Heisig's Part . . . dish. Koohii #1 The part of the kitchen sink in which you wash dishes in is the basin. Koohii #2 I'm not an expert, but it seems that as a basin this refers more to an oceanic basin that a kitchen one, and in any case seems most common in reference to the famous O-Bon festival. So, a story: in the O-Bon festival, so many dishes are broken that all the parts have to be thrown into a deep oceanic basin. Primitives basin, part, eight, sword, dagger, dish 盆(ぼん): Lantern Festival, Festival of the Dead, tray 盆地(ぼんち): basin (e.g. between mountains) Kunyomi: Onyomi: ボン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"alliance Details Story Dictionary 盟 alliance Heisig's Bright . . . dish. Koohii #1 In order to form alliances, you should sit down for a meal and eat until your dish is bright or clear; in other words, get to know people first, before you talk business. Koohii #2 A new alliance is proclaimed at the end of a meal between officials. As a symbol of their alliance they clean up together one dish, and present it to the photographers. The clean dish under the flash lights appears very bright, and it´s pretty much all you can see on the photo that appears on the next morning´s newspapers, with the title ""New alliance, one bright dish!"". Primitives alliance, bright, sun, day, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, dish 同盟(どうめい): alliance, union, league 連盟(れんめい): league, union, alliance Kunyomi: Onyomi: メイ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"alliance 盟 画数13 1558 Details Story Dictionary 盟 alliance Heisig's Bright . . . dish. Koohii #1 In order to form alliances, you should sit down for a meal and eat until your dish is bright or clear; in other words, get to know people first, before you talk business. Koohii #2 A new alliance is proclaimed at the end of a meal between officials. As a symbol of their alliance they clean up together one dish, and present it to the photographers. The clean dish under the flash lights appears very bright, and it´s pretty much all you can see on the photo that appears on the next morning´s newspapers, with the title ""New alliance, one bright dish!"". Primitives alliance, bright, sun, day, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, dish 同盟(どうめい): alliance, union, league 連盟(れんめい): league, union, alliance Kunyomi: Onyomi: メイ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
steal Details Story Dictionary 盗 steal My Story The first thing to steal is the silverware; *next*, *the dishes*. Koohii #1 You are so poor you dont know where your next dish will come from all you know is that you will have to steal it. Koohii #2 The first thing to steal is the silverware; next, the dishes. Primitives steal, next, ice, lack, yawn, dish 盗み(ぬすみ): stealing 強盗(ごうとう): robbery, burglary 盗難(とうなん): theft, robbery 盗む(ぬすむ): steal Kunyomi: ぬす.む、ぬす.み Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 盗む (ぬす.む)	steal 盗 画数11 1559 Details Story Dictionary 盗 steal My Story The first thing to steal is the silverware; *next*, *the dishes*. Koohii #1 You are so poor you dont know where your next dish will come from all you know is that you will have to steal it. Koohii #2 The first thing to steal is the silverware; next, the dishes. Primitives steal, next, ice, lack, yawn, dish 盗み(ぬすみ): stealing 強盗(ごうとう): robbery, burglary 盗難(とうなん): theft, robbery 盗む(ぬすむ): steal Kunyomi: ぬす.む、ぬす.み Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 盗む (ぬす.む)
warm Details Story Dictionary 温 warm My Story [Water + Sun/day + Dish/plate] To warm *water*, leave it in *a dish* in the afternoon *sun*. Koohii #1 If you leave water out in the sun in a dish, naturally it will get warm. Koohii #2 To distinguish from warmth (#1949), which refers to warm weather, remember that this means warm objects or feelings. Imagine a plastic kiddy pool in the backyard full of lukewarm water. The kiddy pool is shaped like a huge dish, and it's been under the sun all day - that's why the water is warm now. Primitives warm, water, water droplets, water pistol, sun, day, dish 温和(おんわ): gentle, mild, moderate 生温い(なまぬるい): lukewarm, halfhearted 保温(ほおん): retaining warmth, keeping heat in, heat insulation 温室(おんしつ): greenhouse 温泉(おんせん): spa, hot spring 温帯(おんたい): temperate zone 温暖(おんだん): warmth 温度(おんど): temperature 気温(きおん): temperature 体温(たいおん): temperature (body) 温い(ぬるい): lukewarm, tepid Kunyomi: あたた.か、あたた.かい、あたた.まる、あたた.める、ぬく Onyomi: オン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 温か (あたた.か), 温かい (あたた.かい), 温まる (あたた.まる), 温める (あたた.める)	warm 温 画数12 1560 Details Story Dictionary 温 warm My Story [Water + Sun/day + Dish/plate] To warm *water*, leave it in *a dish* in the afternoon *sun*. Koohii #1 If you leave water out in the sun in a dish, naturally it will get warm. Koohii #2 To distinguish from warmth (#1949), which refers to warm weather, remember that this means warm objects or feelings. Imagine a plastic kiddy pool in the backyard full of lukewarm water. The kiddy pool is shaped like a huge dish, and it's been under the sun all day - that's why the water is warm now. Primitives warm, water, water droplets, water pistol, sun, day, dish 温和(おんわ): gentle, mild, moderate 生温い(なまぬるい): lukewarm, halfhearted 保温(ほおん): retaining warmth, keeping heat in, heat insulation 温室(おんしつ): greenhouse 温泉(おんせん): spa, hot spring 温帯(おんたい): temperate zone 温暖(おんだん): warmth 温度(おんど): temperature 気温(きおん): temperature 体温(たいおん): temperature (body) 温い(ぬるい): lukewarm, tepid Kunyomi: あたた.か、あたた.かい、あたた.まる、あたた.める、ぬく Onyomi: オン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 温か (あたた.か), 温かい (あたた.かい), 温まる (あたた.まる), 温める (あたた.める)
lid Details Story Dictionary 蓋 lid Heisig's Flowers . . . gone . . . dish. Koohii #1 The lid of this dish is gone! Now the whole room smells of the flowers that were used in the cooking. Koohii #2 When the magician lifted the LID, the flowers were gone from the dish. Primitives lid, flowers, gone, soil, dirt, ground, elbow, dish 蓋(がい): cover, lid, cap 目蓋(まぶた): eyelid 蓋(ふた): cover, lid, cap Kunyomi: ふた、けだ.し、おお.う、かさ、かこう Onyomi: ガイ、カイ、コウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 蓋 (ふた)	lid 蓋 画数13 1561 Details Story Dictionary 蓋 lid Heisig's Flowers . . . gone . . . dish. Koohii #1 The lid of this dish is gone! Now the whole room smells of the flowers that were used in the cooking. Koohii #2 When the magician lifted the LID, the flowers were gone from the dish. Primitives lid, flowers, gone, soil, dirt, ground, elbow, dish 蓋(がい): cover, lid, cap 目蓋(まぶた): eyelid 蓋(ふた): cover, lid, cap Kunyomi: ふた、けだ.し、おお.う、かさ、かこう Onyomi: ガイ、カイ、コウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 蓋 (ふた)
"oversee Details Story Dictionary 監 oversee Heisig's Slaves . . . reclining . . . floor/one . . . dish. Koohii #1 While the slave-buyer is perusing (perusal (#855)) the stack of slaves reclining on the floor, the slaves' overseer supplies them with dishes of gruel -- don't want the slaves starving to death before they can be sold! Koohii #2 The slaves are reclining on the floor when the overseer comes in. They tell him ""We´re not goofing off, a dish fell and broke and we´re cleaning it off the floor"". Primitives oversee, retainer, slave, reclining, lying down, one, floor, dish 監視(かんし): observation, guarding, inspection, surveillance 監督(かんとく): supervision, control, superintendence Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"oversee 監 画数15 1562 Details Story Dictionary 監 oversee Heisig's Slaves . . . reclining . . . floor/one . . . dish. Koohii #1 While the slave-buyer is perusing (perusal (#855)) the stack of slaves reclining on the floor, the slaves' overseer supplies them with dishes of gruel -- don't want the slaves starving to death before they can be sold! Koohii #2 The slaves are reclining on the floor when the overseer comes in. They tell him ""We´re not goofing off, a dish fell and broke and we´re cleaning it off the floor"". Primitives oversee, retainer, slave, reclining, lying down, one, floor, dish 監視(かんし): observation, guarding, inspection, surveillance 監督(かんとく): supervision, control, superintendence Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
overflow Details Story Dictionary 濫 overflow Heisig's Water . . . oversee. Koohii #1 Who´s job is it to oversee the water level on the dam? It´ts overflowing! Koohii #2 The overseer isn´t doing his job and he lets the slaves overflow the sink! Primitives overflow, water, water droplets, water pistol, oversee, retainer, slave, reclining, lying down, one, floor, dish 氾濫(はんらん): overflowing, flood 濫用(らんよう): abuse, misuse, misappropriation, using to excess Kunyomi: みだ.りに、みだ.りがましい Onyomi: ラン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	overflow 濫 画数18 1563 Details Story Dictionary 濫 overflow Heisig's Water . . . oversee. Koohii #1 Who´s job is it to oversee the water level on the dam? It´ts overflowing! Koohii #2 The overseer isn´t doing his job and he lets the slaves overflow the sink! Primitives overflow, water, water droplets, water pistol, oversee, retainer, slave, reclining, lying down, one, floor, dish 氾濫(はんらん): overflowing, flood 濫用(らんよう): abuse, misuse, misappropriation, using to excess Kunyomi: みだ.りに、みだ.りがましい Onyomi: ラン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
specimen Details Story Dictionary 鑑 specimen Heisig's Metal . . . oversee. Koohii #1 The overseer tags his slaves with gold earrings, just like specimens. Koohii #2 (Thanks bodhisamaya) The authorities are suspicious about the athlete that won GOLD at the olympics. They are now OVERSEEING a thorough drug test, taking all sorts of SPECIMENS. Primitives specimen, metal, gold, oversee, retainer, slave, reclining, lying down, one, floor, dish 印鑑(いんかん): stamp, seal 年鑑(ねんかん): yearbook 鑑賞(かんしょう): appreciation 図鑑(ずかん): picture book Kunyomi: かんが.みる、かがみ Onyomi: カン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	specimen 鑑 画数23 1564 Details Story Dictionary 鑑 specimen Heisig's Metal . . . oversee. Koohii #1 The overseer tags his slaves with gold earrings, just like specimens. Koohii #2 (Thanks bodhisamaya) The authorities are suspicious about the athlete that won GOLD at the olympics. They are now OVERSEEING a thorough drug test, taking all sorts of SPECIMENS. Primitives specimen, metal, gold, oversee, retainer, slave, reclining, lying down, one, floor, dish 印鑑(いんかん): stamp, seal 年鑑(ねんかん): yearbook 鑑賞(かんしょう): appreciation 図鑑(ずかん): picture book Kunyomi: かんが.みる、かがみ Onyomi: カン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"indigo Details Story Dictionary 藍 indigo Heisig's Flowers . . . oversee. Koohii #1 Indigo flowers have to be overseen because they are often picked for their beauty. Koohii #2 Traditionally, 青 blue (#1534) could be used to describe blue OR green. However, two kanji that describe the hues specifically are 藍 and 緑. This kanji is the ""blue"" counterpart of green (#1371). Story: The overseer, master of the slaves, wore a cloak dyed with indigo, and flowers in his hair. Primitives indigo, flowers, oversee, retainer, slave, reclining, lying down, one, floor, dish 藍褸(ぼろ): rag, scrap, tattered clothes, fault (esp. in a pretense), defect, run-down or junky Kunyomi: あい Onyomi: ラン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 藍 (あい)"	"indigo 藍 画数18 1565 Details Story Dictionary 藍 indigo Heisig's Flowers . . . oversee. Koohii #1 Indigo flowers have to be overseen because they are often picked for their beauty. Koohii #2 Traditionally, 青 blue (#1534) could be used to describe blue OR green. However, two kanji that describe the hues specifically are 藍 and 緑. This kanji is the ""blue"" counterpart of green (#1371). Story: The overseer, master of the slaves, wore a cloak dyed with indigo, and flowers in his hair. Primitives indigo, flowers, oversee, retainer, slave, reclining, lying down, one, floor, dish 藍褸(ぼろ): rag, scrap, tattered clothes, fault (esp. in a pretense), defect, run-down or junky Kunyomi: あい Onyomi: ラン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 藍 (あい)"
fierce Details Story Dictionary 猛 fierce Heisig's Wild dogs . . . child . . . dish. Koohii #1 The fierce WILD DOG attacked the CHILD who came near his feeding DISH. Koohii #2 If you want to make your wild dogs fierce, feed them a child. Children are the holy grail of dogfood you know... Primitives fierce, pack of wild dogs, child, dish 猛烈(もうれつ): violent, vehement, rage Kunyomi: Onyomi: モウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	fierce 猛 画数11 1566 Details Story Dictionary 猛 fierce Heisig's Wild dogs . . . child . . . dish. Koohii #1 The fierce WILD DOG attacked the CHILD who came near his feeding DISH. Koohii #2 If you want to make your wild dogs fierce, feed them a child. Children are the holy grail of dogfood you know... Primitives fierce, pack of wild dogs, child, dish 猛烈(もうれつ): violent, vehement, rage Kunyomi: Onyomi: モウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
boom Details Story Dictionary 盛 boom Heisig's Here boom refers to something that is popular and prospering. Its elements: turn into . . . dish. Koohii #1 Japan´s economic boom turned their empty plates into full ones. Koohii #2 The boom of satellite TV has made antennas turn into dishes. Primitives boom, turn into, dish 盛る(さかる): to prosper, to flourish, to copulate (animals) 盛装(せいそう): be dressed up, wear rich clothes 盛大(せいだい): grand, prosperous, magnificent 全盛(ぜんせい): height of prosperity 繁盛(はんじょう): prosperity, flourishing, thriving 目盛(めもり): scale, gradations 盛り上がる(もりあがる): to rouse, to swell, to rise 盛り(さかり): summit, peak, prime 盛る(もる): prosper, flourish, copulate (animals) 盛ん(さかん): prosperous Kunyomi: も.る、さか.る、さか.ん Onyomi: セイ、ジョウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 盛大 (せいだい), 隆盛 (りゅうせい), 全盛 (ぜんせい), 盛る (さか.る), 盛ん (さか.ん), 盛る (も.る)	boom 盛 画数11 1567 Details Story Dictionary 盛 boom Heisig's Here boom refers to something that is popular and prospering. Its elements: turn into . . . dish. Koohii #1 Japan´s economic boom turned their empty plates into full ones. Koohii #2 The boom of satellite TV has made antennas turn into dishes. Primitives boom, turn into, dish 盛る(さかる): to prosper, to flourish, to copulate (animals) 盛装(せいそう): be dressed up, wear rich clothes 盛大(せいだい): grand, prosperous, magnificent 全盛(ぜんせい): height of prosperity 繁盛(はんじょう): prosperity, flourishing, thriving 目盛(めもり): scale, gradations 盛り上がる(もりあがる): to rouse, to swell, to rise 盛り(さかり): summit, peak, prime 盛る(もる): prosper, flourish, copulate (animals) 盛ん(さかん): prosperous Kunyomi: も.る、さか.る、さか.ん Onyomi: セイ、ジョウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 盛大 (せいだい), 隆盛 (りゅうせい), 全盛 (ぜんせい), 盛る (さか.る), 盛ん (さか.ん), 盛る (も.る)
"salt Details Story Dictionary 塩 salt My Story [Earth/Jesus + Custom( Old fashioned train)] Koohii #1 In the old days, salt was a worth alot, so it is not surprising to find someone reclining on the ground, mouth to plate, getting every last grain of that delicious salt. Koohii #2 The eccentric explorer lay down on the earth 土, opened his mouth 口, and licked it. ""As I suspected!"" he said, ""It's salt. Something to spice up our dishes 皿 with!"" Primitives salt, soil, dirt, ground, reclining, lying down, mouth, dish 塩(えん): salt 塩辛い(しおからい): salty (flavor) 食塩(しょくえん): table salt 塩(しお): salt Kunyomi: しお Onyomi: エン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 塩 (しお)"	"salt 塩 画数13 1568 Details Story Dictionary 塩 salt My Story [Earth/Jesus + Custom( Old fashioned train)] Koohii #1 In the old days, salt was a worth alot, so it is not surprising to find someone reclining on the ground, mouth to plate, getting every last grain of that delicious salt. Koohii #2 The eccentric explorer lay down on the earth 土, opened his mouth 口, and licked it. ""As I suspected!"" he said, ""It's salt. Something to spice up our dishes 皿 with!"" Primitives salt, soil, dirt, ground, reclining, lying down, mouth, dish 塩(えん): salt 塩辛い(しおからい): salty (flavor) 食塩(しょくえん): table salt 塩(しお): salt Kunyomi: しお Onyomi: エン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 塩 (しお)"
silver Details Story Dictionary 銀 silver My Story Like *gold*, *silver* is a metal. Silver is almost as {良} as gold, but not quite (one stroke missing). Koohii #1 Like gold, silver is a metal. Koohii #2 Not sure why Heisig find the right side so troublesome. My grandma´s hairpin (just before long (#1920)) is made of silver, the metal that best reflects sun light. I´m sure you can see the flash from her hair as she walks by on a sunny day. Note that the two elements (sun and hairpin) share not only a horizontal stroke, but also the left vertical one. Therefore a bit odd stroke order. Primitives silver, metal, gold, silver 銀(ぎん): silver 銀行(ぎんこう): bank Kunyomi: しろがね Onyomi: ギン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:	silver 銀 画数14 1569 Details Story Dictionary 銀 silver My Story Like *gold*, *silver* is a metal. Silver is almost as {良} as gold, but not quite (one stroke missing). Koohii #1 Like gold, silver is a metal. Koohii #2 Not sure why Heisig find the right side so troublesome. My grandma´s hairpin (just before long (#1920)) is made of silver, the metal that best reflects sun light. I´m sure you can see the flash from her hair as she walks by on a sunny day. Note that the two elements (sun and hairpin) share not only a horizontal stroke, but also the left vertical one. Therefore a bit odd stroke order. Primitives silver, metal, gold, silver 銀(ぎん): silver 銀行(ぎんこう): bank Kunyomi: しろがね Onyomi: ギン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:
resentment Details Story Dictionary 恨 resentment Heisig's State of mind . . . silver. Koohii #1 The athlete´s state of mind is nothing but resentment after getting the silver medal. Koohii #2 Data´s greatest resentment is getting a silver medal in Science Olympiad. (Image: Data fuming on the podium muttering about being half robot). Primitives regret, resentment, Freud, state of mind, silver 恨み(うらみ): resentment 恨む(うらむ): feel bitter Kunyomi: うら.む、うら.めしい Onyomi: コン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 恨む (うら.む), 恨めしい (うら.めしい)	resentment 恨 画数9 1570 Details Story Dictionary 恨 resentment Heisig's State of mind . . . silver. Koohii #1 The athlete´s state of mind is nothing but resentment after getting the silver medal. Koohii #2 Data´s greatest resentment is getting a silver medal in Science Olympiad. (Image: Data fuming on the podium muttering about being half robot). Primitives regret, resentment, Freud, state of mind, silver 恨み(うらみ): resentment 恨む(うらむ): feel bitter Kunyomi: うら.む、うら.めしい Onyomi: コン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 恨む (うら.む), 恨めしい (うら.めしい)
root Details Story Dictionary 根 root My Story The #root#s of the magical *tree* are *silver*. Koohii #1 Since trees eat through their roots, one could imagine roots as tree silverware. Koohii #2 The roots of the magical tree are silver. Primitives root, tree, wood, silver 球根(きゅうこん): (plant) bulb 根気(こんき): patience, perseverance, energy 根拠(こんきょ): basis, foundation 根底(こんてい): root, basis, foundation 根本(こんぽん): origin, source, foundation, root, base, principle 根回し(ねまわし): making necessary arrangements 利根(りこん): intelligence 垣根(かきね): hedge 根(ね): root 羽根(はね): shuttlecock 屋根(やね): roof Kunyomi: ね、-ね Onyomi: コン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 根 (ね)	root 根 画数10 1571 Details Story Dictionary 根 root My Story The #root#s of the magical *tree* are *silver*. Koohii #1 Since trees eat through their roots, one could imagine roots as tree silverware. Koohii #2 The roots of the magical tree are silver. Primitives root, tree, wood, silver 球根(きゅうこん): (plant) bulb 根気(こんき): patience, perseverance, energy 根拠(こんきょ): basis, foundation 根底(こんてい): root, basis, foundation 根本(こんぽん): origin, source, foundation, root, base, principle 根回し(ねまわし): making necessary arrangements 利根(りこん): intelligence 垣根(かきね): hedge 根(ね): root 羽根(はね): shuttlecock 屋根(やね): roof Kunyomi: ね、-ね Onyomi: コン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 根 (ね)
instant Details Story Dictionary 即 instant Heisig's Silver . . . stamp. Koohii #1 He scratches off the silver stamp and discovers that he is an instant winner. Koohii #2 For instant postal delivery, buy a silver stamp! Primitives instant, silver, stamp 即ち(すなわち): that is, namely, i.e. 即座に(そくざに): immediately, right away 即する(そくする): to conform to, to agree with, to be adapted to, to be based on Kunyomi: つ.く、つ.ける、すなわ.ち Onyomi: ソク Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	instant 即 画数7 1572 Details Story Dictionary 即 instant Heisig's Silver . . . stamp. Koohii #1 He scratches off the silver stamp and discovers that he is an instant winner. Koohii #2 For instant postal delivery, buy a silver stamp! Primitives instant, silver, stamp 即ち(すなわち): that is, namely, i.e. 即座に(そくざに): immediately, right away 即する(そくする): to conform to, to agree with, to be adapted to, to be based on Kunyomi: つ.く、つ.ける、すなわ.ち Onyomi: ソク Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
baron Details Story Dictionary 爵 baron Heisig's Vulture . . . eye . . . silver . . . glue. Koohii #1 The baron is very suspicious, always looking around with vulture eyes and keeping the silver glued to the table so no one can steal it. Koohii #2 Here we see an evil baron - a vulture perched on his shoulder, and a siver eye-patch glued to his eye. Primitives baron, claw, vulture, net, eye, silver, glue Kunyomi: Onyomi: シャク Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	baron 爵 画数17 1573 Details Story Dictionary 爵 baron Heisig's Vulture . . . eye . . . silver . . . glue. Koohii #1 The baron is very suspicious, always looking around with vulture eyes and keeping the silver glued to the table so no one can steal it. Koohii #2 Here we see an evil baron - a vulture perched on his shoulder, and a siver eye-patch glued to his eye. Primitives baron, claw, vulture, net, eye, silver, glue Kunyomi: Onyomi: シャク Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
season / joint (node) Details Story Dictionary 節 season / joint (node) My Story [Bamboo {竹} + instant {即}] *Bamboo* grows *instantly* in this #season#! Koohii #1 Counting the nodes on bamboo is an instant way to tell its age. Koohii #2 A certain species of bamboo is considered the fastest growing plant in the world. A new node can be formed in an instant. Primitives node, bamboo, instant, silver, stamp 節(せつ): node, section, occasion, time 節約(せつやく): economising, saving 調節(ちょうせつ): regulation, adjustment, control 節(ふし): node, section, occasion, time 季節(きせつ): season Kunyomi: ふし、-ぶし、のっと Onyomi: セツ、セチ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 節約 (せつやく), 季節 (きせつ), 関節 (かんせつ), 節 (ふし)	season / joint (node) 節 画数13 1574 Details Story Dictionary 節 season / joint (node) My Story [Bamboo {竹} + instant {即}] *Bamboo* grows *instantly* in this #season#! Koohii #1 Counting the nodes on bamboo is an instant way to tell its age. Koohii #2 A certain species of bamboo is considered the fastest growing plant in the world. A new node can be formed in an instant. Primitives node, bamboo, instant, silver, stamp 節(せつ): node, section, occasion, time 節約(せつやく): economising, saving 調節(ちょうせつ): regulation, adjustment, control 節(ふし): node, section, occasion, time 季節(きせつ): season Kunyomi: ふし、-ぶし、のっと Onyomi: セツ、セチ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 節約 (せつやく), 季節 (きせつ), 関節 (かんせつ), 節 (ふし)
retreat Details Story Dictionary 退 retreat My Story [Silver {銀} primitive + motion] you see a huge army of people in *silver* armor *moving* on the road so you retreat Koohii #1 If you see silver on the road (eg. gun, armour, sword) => retreat! Koohii #2 In the land of Oz, you advance by following the golden road, but you reatreat by following the Silver Road. Primitives retreat, road, silver 後退(こうたい): retreat, backspace (BS) 辞退(じたい): refusal 退く(しりぞく): to retreat, to recede, to withdraw 退ける(しりぞける): to repel, to drive away 退化(たいか): degeneration, retrogression 退学(たいがく): dropping out of school 退治(たいじ): extermination 退職(たいしょく): retirement (from office) 脱退(だったい): secession 引退(いんたい): retire 退屈(たいくつ): tedium, boredom 退く(どく): retreat, recede, withdraw 退ける(どける): remove, take away, dislodge, put something out of the way 退院(たいいん): leave hospital Kunyomi: しりぞ.く、しりぞ.ける、ひ.く、の.く、の.ける、ど.く Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 退く (しりぞ.く), 退ける (しりぞ.ける)	retreat 退 画数9 1575 Details Story Dictionary 退 retreat My Story [Silver {銀} primitive + motion] you see a huge army of people in *silver* armor *moving* on the road so you retreat Koohii #1 If you see silver on the road (eg. gun, armour, sword) => retreat! Koohii #2 In the land of Oz, you advance by following the golden road, but you reatreat by following the Silver Road. Primitives retreat, road, silver 後退(こうたい): retreat, backspace (BS) 辞退(じたい): refusal 退く(しりぞく): to retreat, to recede, to withdraw 退ける(しりぞける): to repel, to drive away 退化(たいか): degeneration, retrogression 退学(たいがく): dropping out of school 退治(たいじ): extermination 退職(たいしょく): retirement (from office) 脱退(だったい): secession 引退(いんたい): retire 退屈(たいくつ): tedium, boredom 退く(どく): retreat, recede, withdraw 退ける(どける): remove, take away, dislodge, put something out of the way 退院(たいいん): leave hospital Kunyomi: しりぞ.く、しりぞ.ける、ひ.く、の.く、の.ける、ど.く Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 退く (しりぞ.く), 退ける (しりぞ.ける)
limit Details Story Dictionary 限 limit Heisig's Pinnacle . . . silver. Koohii #1 He was pushed to the limit at the end of the marathon, climbing on top of the Acropolis, but had to settle for the silver medal. Koohii #2 At The Pinnacle, they limit how much silver you can have. Too much silver will lead to wrongfulness. Primitives limit, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, silver 局限(きょくげん): limit, localize 権限(けんげん): power, authority, jurisdiction 限定(げんてい): limit, restriction 限る(かぎる): to limit, restrict, confine 期限(きげん): term, period 限界(げんかい): limit, bound 限度(げんど): limit, bounds 制限(せいげん): restriction, restraint, limitation 無限(むげん): infinite Kunyomi: かぎ.る、かぎ.り、-かぎ.り Onyomi: ゲン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 限る (かぎ.る)	limit 限 画数9 1576 Details Story Dictionary 限 limit Heisig's Pinnacle . . . silver. Koohii #1 He was pushed to the limit at the end of the marathon, climbing on top of the Acropolis, but had to settle for the silver medal. Koohii #2 At The Pinnacle, they limit how much silver you can have. Too much silver will lead to wrongfulness. Primitives limit, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, silver 局限(きょくげん): limit, localize 権限(けんげん): power, authority, jurisdiction 限定(げんてい): limit, restriction 限る(かぎる): to limit, restrict, confine 期限(きげん): term, period 限界(げんかい): limit, bound 限度(げんど): limit, bounds 制限(せいげん): restriction, restraint, limitation 無限(むげん): infinite Kunyomi: かぎ.る、かぎ.り、-かぎ.り Onyomi: ゲン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 限る (かぎ.る)
eyeball Details Story Dictionary 眼 eyeball Heisig's Eye . . . silver. Koohii #1 Be careful putting silverware near your eyes: you could lose an eyeball! Koohii #2 Eyeballs made of silver. That´s what they use to play pachinko with, isn´t it? Primitives eyeball, eye, silver 眼科(がんか): ophthalmology 眼球(がんきゅう): eyeball 眼鏡(がんきょう): spectacles, glasses 近眼(きんがん): nearsightedness, shortsightedness, myopia 眼鏡(めがね): spectacles, glasses Kunyomi: まなこ、め Onyomi: ガン、ゲン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 眼球 (がんきゅう), 眼力 (がんりき), 主眼 (しゅがん), 眼 (まなこ)	eyeball 眼 画数11 1577 Details Story Dictionary 眼 eyeball Heisig's Eye . . . silver. Koohii #1 Be careful putting silverware near your eyes: you could lose an eyeball! Koohii #2 Eyeballs made of silver. That´s what they use to play pachinko with, isn´t it? Primitives eyeball, eye, silver 眼科(がんか): ophthalmology 眼球(がんきゅう): eyeball 眼鏡(がんきょう): spectacles, glasses 近眼(きんがん): nearsightedness, shortsightedness, myopia 眼鏡(めがね): spectacles, glasses Kunyomi: まなこ、め Onyomi: ガン、ゲン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 眼球 (がんきゅう), 眼力 (がんりき), 主眼 (しゅがん), 眼 (まなこ)
good Details Story Dictionary 良 good Heisig's Drop of . . . silver. * As a primitive, use the image of a saint's halo. As with silver, when this element is drawn on the left, the penultimate stroke is omitted. Koohii #1 With a drop of silver, the forces of good can vanquish the werewolves. Koohii #2 A drop of silver is good, but a whole bar of it is better! Primitives good, drop, silver 良い(いい): good 改良(かいりょう): improvement, reform 善良(ぜんりょう): goodness, excellence, virtue 不良(ふりょう): badness, delinquent, inferiority, failure 良好(りょうこう): favorable, satisfactory 良識(りょうしき): good sense 良質(りょうしつ): good quality, superior quality 良心(りょうしん): conscience 仲良し(なかよし): intimate friend, close friend Kunyomi: よ.い、-よ.い、い.い、-い.い Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 良い (よ.い)	good 良 画数7 1578 Details Story Dictionary 良 good Heisig's Drop of . . . silver. * As a primitive, use the image of a saint's halo. As with silver, when this element is drawn on the left, the penultimate stroke is omitted. Koohii #1 With a drop of silver, the forces of good can vanquish the werewolves. Koohii #2 A drop of silver is good, but a whole bar of it is better! Primitives good, drop, silver 良い(いい): good 改良(かいりょう): improvement, reform 善良(ぜんりょう): goodness, excellence, virtue 不良(ふりょう): badness, delinquent, inferiority, failure 良好(りょうこう): favorable, satisfactory 良識(りょうしき): good sense 良質(りょうしつ): good quality, superior quality 良心(りょうしん): conscience 仲良し(なかよし): intimate friend, close friend Kunyomi: よ.い、-よ.い、い.い、-い.い Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 良い (よ.い)
melodious Details Story Dictionary 朗 melodious Heisig's Halo . . . moon. Koohii #1 [Image: ´Moonlight sonata´] The moon has inspired many good composers (like Ludwig van Beethoven) to write something melodious. Koohii #2 A glowing halo surrounds a magnificent full moon. A perfect image of the mythic and melodious music of the spheres. Primitives melodious, halo, drop, silver, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 明朗(めいろう): bright, clear, cheerful 朗読(ろうどく): reading aloud, recitation 朗らか(ほがらか): brightness, cheerfulness, melodious Kunyomi: ほが.らか、あき.らか Onyomi: ロウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 朗らか (ほが.らか)	melodious 朗 画数10 1579 Details Story Dictionary 朗 melodious Heisig's Halo . . . moon. Koohii #1 [Image: ´Moonlight sonata´] The moon has inspired many good composers (like Ludwig van Beethoven) to write something melodious. Koohii #2 A glowing halo surrounds a magnificent full moon. A perfect image of the mythic and melodious music of the spheres. Primitives melodious, halo, drop, silver, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 明朗(めいろう): bright, clear, cheerful 朗読(ろうどく): reading aloud, recitation 朗らか(ほがらか): brightness, cheerfulness, melodious Kunyomi: ほが.らか、あき.らか Onyomi: ロウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 朗らか (ほが.らか)
wandering Details Story Dictionary 浪 wandering Heisig's Water . . . halo. Koohii #1 Water is a good thing to have when you´re out wandering. Koohii #2 John the Baptist with a halo sprinkling water on people as he´s wandering the wilderness. Primitives wandering, water, water droplets, water pistol, halo, drop, silver 浪費(ろうひ): waste, extravagance Kunyomi: Onyomi: ロウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	wandering 浪 画数10 1580 Details Story Dictionary 浪 wandering Heisig's Water . . . halo. Koohii #1 Water is a good thing to have when you´re out wandering. Koohii #2 John the Baptist with a halo sprinkling water on people as he´s wandering the wilderness. Primitives wandering, water, water droplets, water pistol, halo, drop, silver 浪費(ろうひ): waste, extravagance Kunyomi: Onyomi: ロウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
daughter Details Story Dictionary 娘 daughter Heisig's Woman . . . halo. Koohii #1 Your daughter is a good girl......well, let´s hope so... :-). Koohii #2 Be careful not to think woman + angel here, which has already been seen for attractive (#430). Suggest using woman with a halo, as in an innocent girl, something that everyone sees their daughters as being. Primitives daughter, woman, halo, drop, silver 娘(むすめ): daughter Kunyomi: むすめ、こ Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 娘 (むすめ)	daughter 娘 画数10 1581 Details Story Dictionary 娘 daughter Heisig's Woman . . . halo. Koohii #1 Your daughter is a good girl......well, let´s hope so... :-). Koohii #2 Be careful not to think woman + angel here, which has already been seen for attractive (#430). Suggest using woman with a halo, as in an innocent girl, something that everyone sees their daughters as being. Primitives daughter, woman, halo, drop, silver 娘(むすめ): daughter Kunyomi: むすめ、こ Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 娘 (むすめ)
"eat Details Story Dictionary 食 eat Heisig's If halo and umbrella aren't enough, break the halo down into drop and silver - or ""silverware,"" an additional primitive. * As a primitive, this kanji can mean either eating or food. As with silver, on the left the final two strokes of this element are combined into one. Koohii #1 That umbrella looks good enough to eat! Koohii #2 Umbrella + Good: Let's go eat at that restaurant - the table with the umbrella looks good. Primitives eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver 給食(きゅうしょく): school lunch, providing a meal 食い違う(くいちがう): to cross each other, to run counter to, to differ, to clash, to go awry 主食(しゅしょく): staple food 食事(しょくじ): meal 定食(ていしょく): set meal, special (of the day) 衣食住(いしょくじゅう): necessities of life (food, clothing, etc.) 食う(くう): eat 食塩(しょくえん): table salt 食卓(しょくたく): dining table 食品(しょくひん): commodity, foodstuff 食物(しょくもつ): food, foodstuff 食欲(しょくよく): appetite (for food) 食料(しょくりょう): food 食糧(しょくりょう): provisions, rations 食器(しょっき): tableware 昼食(ちゅうしょく): lunch, midday meal 食料品(しょくりょうひん): foods 食堂(しょくどう): cafeteria, dining room 食べ物(たべもの): food 食べる(たべる): eat Kunyomi: く.う、く.らう、た.べる、は.む Onyomi: ショク、ジキ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 食事 (しょくじ), 食料 (しょくりょう), 会食 (かいしょく), 食う (く.う), 食らう (く.らう), 食べる (た.べる)"	"eat 食 画数9 1582 Details Story Dictionary 食 eat Heisig's If halo and umbrella aren't enough, break the halo down into drop and silver - or ""silverware,"" an additional primitive. * As a primitive, this kanji can mean either eating or food. As with silver, on the left the final two strokes of this element are combined into one. Koohii #1 That umbrella looks good enough to eat! Koohii #2 Umbrella + Good: Let's go eat at that restaurant - the table with the umbrella looks good. Primitives eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver 給食(きゅうしょく): school lunch, providing a meal 食い違う(くいちがう): to cross each other, to run counter to, to differ, to clash, to go awry 主食(しゅしょく): staple food 食事(しょくじ): meal 定食(ていしょく): set meal, special (of the day) 衣食住(いしょくじゅう): necessities of life (food, clothing, etc.) 食う(くう): eat 食塩(しょくえん): table salt 食卓(しょくたく): dining table 食品(しょくひん): commodity, foodstuff 食物(しょくもつ): food, foodstuff 食欲(しょくよく): appetite (for food) 食料(しょくりょう): food 食糧(しょくりょう): provisions, rations 食器(しょっき): tableware 昼食(ちゅうしょく): lunch, midday meal 食料品(しょくりょうひん): foods 食堂(しょくどう): cafeteria, dining room 食べ物(たべもの): food 食べる(たべる): eat Kunyomi: く.う、く.らう、た.べる、は.む Onyomi: ショク、ジキ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 食事 (しょくじ), 食料 (しょくりょう), 会食 (かいしょく), 食う (く.う), 食らう (く.らう), 食べる (た.べる)"
meal Details Story Dictionary 飯 meal Heisig's Food . . . anti-. Koohii #1 After I eat a meal, I always have to take an anti-acid. Koohii #2 I´m anti-fastfood. Sit down and eat a real meal! Primitives meal, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch 昼飯(ちゅうはん): lunch, midday meal 飯(めし): meal(s), food 夕飯(ゆうはん): dinner 朝御飯(あさごはん): breakfast 御飯(ごはん): rice (cooked), meal 晩御飯(ばんごはん): dinner, evening meal 昼御飯(ひるごはん): lunch, midday meal Kunyomi: めし Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 飯 (めし)	meal 飯 画数12 1583 Details Story Dictionary 飯 meal Heisig's Food . . . anti-. Koohii #1 After I eat a meal, I always have to take an anti-acid. Koohii #2 I´m anti-fastfood. Sit down and eat a real meal! Primitives meal, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, anti-, demonstration, cliff, crotch 昼飯(ちゅうはん): lunch, midday meal 飯(めし): meal(s), food 夕飯(ゆうはん): dinner 朝御飯(あさごはん): breakfast 御飯(ごはん): rice (cooked), meal 晩御飯(ばんごはん): dinner, evening meal 昼御飯(ひるごはん): lunch, midday meal Kunyomi: めし Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 飯 (めし)
drink Details Story Dictionary 飲 drink Heisig's Food . . . yawn. Koohii #1 My experience with Japanese enkais (dinner parties): plenty to drink drink drink, but a severe lack of food, T_T. Koohii #2 When you lack food, just drink something to fill you up. Primitives drink, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, lack, yawn 飲み込む(のみこむ): to gulp down, to swallow deeply, to understand, to take in, to catch on to, to learn, to digest 湯飲み(ゆのみ): teacup 飲み物(のみもの): drink, beverage 飲む(のむ): to drink Kunyomi: の.む、-の.み Onyomi: イン、オン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 飲む (の.む)	drink 飲 画数12 1584 Details Story Dictionary 飲 drink Heisig's Food . . . yawn. Koohii #1 My experience with Japanese enkais (dinner parties): plenty to drink drink drink, but a severe lack of food, T_T. Koohii #2 When you lack food, just drink something to fill you up. Primitives drink, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, lack, yawn 飲み込む(のみこむ): to gulp down, to swallow deeply, to understand, to take in, to catch on to, to learn, to digest 湯飲み(ゆのみ): teacup 飲み物(のみもの): drink, beverage 飲む(のむ): to drink Kunyomi: の.む、-の.み Onyomi: イン、オン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 飲む (の.む)
hungry Details Story Dictionary 飢 hungry Heisig's Food . . . wind. Koohii #1 The smell of cooked food wafts past you in the wind, making your stomach rumble and feeling hungry. Koohii #2 The wind blew away my food, so now I´m hungry. Primitives hungry, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, wind 飢える(うえる): starve 飢饉(ききん): famine Kunyomi: う.える Onyomi: キ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 飢える (う.える)	hungry 飢 画数10 1585 Details Story Dictionary 飢 hungry Heisig's Food . . . wind. Koohii #1 The smell of cooked food wafts past you in the wind, making your stomach rumble and feeling hungry. Koohii #2 The wind blew away my food, so now I´m hungry. Primitives hungry, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, wind 飢える(うえる): starve 飢饉(ききん): famine Kunyomi: う.える Onyomi: キ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 飢える (う.える)
starve Details Story Dictionary 餓 starve Heisig's Food . . . ego. Koohii #1 All those starving models in Hollywood - they want to eat, but their ego (about their appearance and trim look) makes sure they grin and bear it! Koohii #2 He starves for FOOD but his EGO won´t let him beg. Primitives starve, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, ego, hand, fiesta Kunyomi: う.える Onyomi: ガ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	starve 餓 画数15 1586 Details Story Dictionary 餓 starve Heisig's Food . . . ego. Koohii #1 All those starving models in Hollywood - they want to eat, but their ego (about their appearance and trim look) makes sure they grin and bear it! Koohii #2 He starves for FOOD but his EGO won´t let him beg. Primitives starve, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, ego, hand, fiesta Kunyomi: う.える Onyomi: ガ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
decorate Details Story Dictionary 飾 decorate My Story Before drinking, you decorate your rife and towel before heading to war Koohii #1 [decorate; ornament; adorn; embellish] We decorate a table before eating, reclining a towel over it. Koohii #2 Naked sushi: a lady reclining on a towel as decoration for the food laid out on her. Primitives decorate, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, reclining, lying down, towel 着飾る(きかざる): to dress up 首飾り(くびかざり): necklace 修飾(しゅうしょく): ornamentation, embellishment, decoration, adornment, polish up (writing), modification (gram) 装飾(そうしょく): ornament 飾り(かざり): decoration 飾る(かざる): decorate Kunyomi: かざ.る、かざ.り Onyomi: ショク Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 飾る (かざ.る)	decorate 飾 画数13 1587 Details Story Dictionary 飾 decorate My Story Before drinking, you decorate your rife and towel before heading to war Koohii #1 [decorate; ornament; adorn; embellish] We decorate a table before eating, reclining a towel over it. Koohii #2 Naked sushi: a lady reclining on a towel as decoration for the food laid out on her. Primitives decorate, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, reclining, lying down, towel 着飾る(きかざる): to dress up 首飾り(くびかざり): necklace 修飾(しゅうしょく): ornamentation, embellishment, decoration, adornment, polish up (writing), modification (gram) 装飾(そうしょく): ornament 飾り(かざり): decoration 飾る(かざる): decorate Kunyomi: かざ.る、かざ.り Onyomi: ショク Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 飾る (かざ.る)
feed Details Story Dictionary 餌 feed Heisig's Food . . . ear. The sense of the key word here is that of bait or feed for animals. Koohii #1 Food made of ears is animal feed. Koohii #2 Do you know Mike Tayson favorite feed? Ears! He eats ears! Primitives feed, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, ear 餌(えさ): bait, feed Kunyomi: え、えば、えさ、もち Onyomi: ジ、ニ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 餌 (ええさ)	feed 餌 画数14 1588 Details Story Dictionary 餌 feed Heisig's Food . . . ear. The sense of the key word here is that of bait or feed for animals. Koohii #1 Food made of ears is animal feed. Koohii #2 Do you know Mike Tayson favorite feed? Ears! He eats ears! Primitives feed, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, ear 餌(えさ): bait, feed Kunyomi: え、えば、えさ、もち Onyomi: ジ、ニ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 餌 (ええさ)
Bldg. Details Story Dictionary 館 Bldg. My Story [Eat (first part of 飲) + Federal/bureaucrat {官}] Don't let your children grow up to be *bureaucrats*. The Gov't Bldgs. will *eat* them alive. Koohii #1 This Bldg. is like all the other government buildings - they house bureaucrats who sit around sipping wine and eating expensive meals at the taxpayers expense. Koohii #2 A building that eats bureaucrats!!!!!!!! Primitives Bldg., eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, bureaucrat, house, maestro without baton 館(かん): house, hall, building, hotel, inn, guesthouse 館(たち): mansion, small castle 本館(ほんかん): main building 会館(かいかん): meeting hall, assembly hall 博物館(はくぶつかん): museum 美術館(びじゅつかん): art gallery 旅館(りょかん): Japanese inn 映画館(えいがかん): movie theatre (theater), cinema 大使館(たいしかん): embassy 図書館(としょかん): library Kunyomi: やかた、たて Onyomi: カン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:	Bldg. 館 画数16 1589 Details Story Dictionary 館 Bldg. My Story [Eat (first part of 飲) + Federal/bureaucrat {官}] Don't let your children grow up to be *bureaucrats*. The Gov't Bldgs. will *eat* them alive. Koohii #1 This Bldg. is like all the other government buildings - they house bureaucrats who sit around sipping wine and eating expensive meals at the taxpayers expense. Koohii #2 A building that eats bureaucrats!!!!!!!! Primitives Bldg., eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, bureaucrat, house, maestro without baton 館(かん): house, hall, building, hotel, inn, guesthouse 館(たち): mansion, small castle 本館(ほんかん): main building 会館(かいかん): meeting hall, assembly hall 博物館(はくぶつかん): museum 美術館(びじゅつかん): art gallery 旅館(りょかん): Japanese inn 映画館(えいがかん): movie theatre (theater), cinema 大使館(たいしかん): embassy 図書館(としょかん): library Kunyomi: やかた、たて Onyomi: カン Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:
"mochi Details Story Dictionary 餅 mochi Heisig's Mochi is the glutinous rice the Japanese pound into cakes. Its primitives are: food . . . puzzle. Koohii #1 Call your friend and he answers the phone ""Mochi, mochi!"" whatever he is eating sure is making it hard to understand. I will puzzle over the content of our conversation for some time to come. Koohii #2 Mochi ice cream is a puzzling food, I still have no idea how they get that ice cream in there, but it sure tastes good. Primitives mochi, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, puzzle, horns, two hands 餅(もち): sticky rice cake Kunyomi: もち、もちい Onyomi: ヘイ、ヒョウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 餅 (もち)"	"mochi 餅 画数14 1590 Details Story Dictionary 餅 mochi Heisig's Mochi is the glutinous rice the Japanese pound into cakes. Its primitives are: food . . . puzzle. Koohii #1 Call your friend and he answers the phone ""Mochi, mochi!"" whatever he is eating sure is making it hard to understand. I will puzzle over the content of our conversation for some time to come. Koohii #2 Mochi ice cream is a puzzling food, I still have no idea how they get that ice cream in there, but it sure tastes good. Primitives mochi, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, puzzle, horns, two hands 餅(もち): sticky rice cake Kunyomi: もち、もちい Onyomi: ヘイ、ヒョウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 餅 (もち)"
"foster Details Story Dictionary 養 foster Heisig's Sheep . . . food. The key word has the sense of promoting the development of something, especially in a psychological or spiritual sense. Koohii #1 A sheep became the foster parent for a wolf pup, feeding it with milk. This story cannot end well... Koohii #2 Judy Foster in ""The Silence of the Lambs"" is what Dr. Hannibal-the cannibal-Lecter would like to eat. Primitives foster, sheep, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver 扶養(ふよう): support, maintenance 保養(ほよう): health preservation, recuperation, recreation 養う(やしなう): to rear, to maintain, to cultivate 養護(ようご): protection, nursing, protective care 養成(ようせい): training, development 栄養(えいよう): nutrition, nourishment 休養(きゅうよう): rest, break, recreation 教養(きょうよう): culture, education, refinement, cultivation 養分(ようぶん): nourishment, nutrient Kunyomi: やしな.う Onyomi: ヨウ、リョウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 養う (やしな.う)"	"foster 養 画数15 1591 Details Story Dictionary 養 foster Heisig's Sheep . . . food. The key word has the sense of promoting the development of something, especially in a psychological or spiritual sense. Koohii #1 A sheep became the foster parent for a wolf pup, feeding it with milk. This story cannot end well... Koohii #2 Judy Foster in ""The Silence of the Lambs"" is what Dr. Hannibal-the cannibal-Lecter would like to eat. Primitives foster, sheep, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver 扶養(ふよう): support, maintenance 保養(ほよう): health preservation, recuperation, recreation 養う(やしなう): to rear, to maintain, to cultivate 養護(ようご): protection, nursing, protective care 養成(ようせい): training, development 栄養(えいよう): nutrition, nourishment 休養(きゅうよう): rest, break, recreation 教養(きょうよう): culture, education, refinement, cultivation 養分(ようぶん): nourishment, nutrient Kunyomi: やしな.う Onyomi: ヨウ、リョウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 養う (やしな.う)"
sated (get sick of) Details Story Dictionary 飽 sated (get sick of) My Story I *eat* (first part of 飲む) and I keep seeing a *2-shaped thing* in a *prison*, I am getting sick of this Koohii #1 My gluttony was only sated after I ate the hamburger AND the wrapper! Koohii #2 This guy is sated only after eating the hamburger AND its wrapping! Primitives sated, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, wrap, bound up, snake, self 飽和(ほうわ): saturation 飽きる(あきる): get tired of, lose interest in 飽くまで(あくまで): to the end, stubbornly, persistently Kunyomi: あ.きる、あ.かす、あ.く Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 飽かす (あ.かす), 飽きる (あ.きる)	sated (get sick of) 飽 画数13 1592 Details Story Dictionary 飽 sated (get sick of) My Story I *eat* (first part of 飲む) and I keep seeing a *2-shaped thing* in a *prison*, I am getting sick of this Koohii #1 My gluttony was only sated after I ate the hamburger AND the wrapper! Koohii #2 This guy is sated only after eating the hamburger AND its wrapping! Primitives sated, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, wrap, bound up, snake, self 飽和(ほうわ): saturation 飽きる(あきる): get tired of, lose interest in 飽くまで(あくまで): to the end, stubbornly, persistently Kunyomi: あ.きる、あ.かす、あ.く Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 飽かす (あ.かす), 飽きる (あ.きる)
"previously Details Story Dictionary 既 previously Heisig's Silver . . . waitress. Do not confuse this kanji's key word with before (Frame 263). Koohii #1 Distinguish from formerly (#501). Think of previously as ""the previous customer"" in a restaurant. At a cheap sleazy diner, the waitress gives you unwashed silverware that was previously used by the previous customer. Yuck. Koohii #2 For the waitress primitive, I don´t really see the receipt. So instead, I imagine a waitress holding a plate above her head, using those legs to weave through the tables. Primitives previously, silver, waitress 既婚(きこん): marriage, married 既に(すでに): already, too late Kunyomi: すで.に Onyomi: キ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 既に (すで.に)"	"previously 既 画数10 1593 Details Story Dictionary 既 previously Heisig's Silver . . . waitress. Do not confuse this kanji's key word with before (Frame 263). Koohii #1 Distinguish from formerly (#501). Think of previously as ""the previous customer"" in a restaurant. At a cheap sleazy diner, the waitress gives you unwashed silverware that was previously used by the previous customer. Yuck. Koohii #2 For the waitress primitive, I don´t really see the receipt. So instead, I imagine a waitress holding a plate above her head, using those legs to weave through the tables. Primitives previously, silver, waitress 既婚(きこん): marriage, married 既に(すでに): already, too late Kunyomi: すで.に Onyomi: キ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 既に (すで.に)"
outline Details Story Dictionary 概 outline Heisig's Roots . . . waitress. Note that the kanji meaning of the two primitives to the right is not used here because we shall later meet a primitive meaning beforehand and want to preempt any confusion. The same holds true in the following frame. Koohii #1 The police tried to draw a chalk outline around the dead waitress, but it was kinda tough with all the tree roots underneath her. Koohii #2 If you attempted to outline the biography of most famous actresses, you´d find that they have roots working as waitresses before getting their big break. Primitives outline, roots, tree, wood, silver, waitress, previously 一概に(いちがいに): unconditionally, as a rule 概説(がいせつ): general statement, outline 概念(がいねん): general idea, concept, notion 概略(がいりゃく): outline, summary, gist, in brief 大概(たいがい): in general, mainly 概論(がいろん): introduction, outline, general remarks Kunyomi: おうむ.ね Onyomi: ガイ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	outline 概 画数14 1594 Details Story Dictionary 概 outline Heisig's Roots . . . waitress. Note that the kanji meaning of the two primitives to the right is not used here because we shall later meet a primitive meaning beforehand and want to preempt any confusion. The same holds true in the following frame. Koohii #1 The police tried to draw a chalk outline around the dead waitress, but it was kinda tough with all the tree roots underneath her. Koohii #2 If you attempted to outline the biography of most famous actresses, you´d find that they have roots working as waitresses before getting their big break. Primitives outline, roots, tree, wood, silver, waitress, previously 一概に(いちがいに): unconditionally, as a rule 概説(がいせつ): general statement, outline 概念(がいねん): general idea, concept, notion 概略(がいりゃく): outline, summary, gist, in brief 大概(たいがい): in general, mainly 概論(がいろん): introduction, outline, general remarks Kunyomi: おうむ.ね Onyomi: ガイ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
rue Details Story Dictionary 慨 rue Heisig's Resentment . . . waitress. Koohii #1 If you don´t leave some silver as a tip, you will rue the day you earned the resentment of your waitress. Koohii #2 The resentment of a waitress who gave up going to college to help her boyfriend (with his tuition). She rues that decision ever since she got dumped by him (just after he graduated). Primitives rue, regret, resentment, Freud, state of mind, silver, waitress, previously 感慨(かんがい): strong feelings, deep emotion 憤慨(ふんがい): indignation, resentment Kunyomi: Onyomi: ガイ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	rue 慨 画数13 1595 Details Story Dictionary 慨 rue Heisig's Resentment . . . waitress. Koohii #1 If you don´t leave some silver as a tip, you will rue the day you earned the resentment of your waitress. Koohii #2 The resentment of a waitress who gave up going to college to help her boyfriend (with his tuition). She rues that decision ever since she got dumped by him (just after he graduated). Primitives rue, regret, resentment, Freud, state of mind, silver, waitress, previously 感慨(かんがい): strong feelings, deep emotion 憤慨(ふんがい): indignation, resentment Kunyomi: Onyomi: ガイ Lesson: 38 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
even Details Story Dictionary 平 even Heisig's This character is easiest remembered as a pictograph of a water lily floating on the surface of the water, which gives it its meaning of even. The fourth stroke represents the calm, smooth surface of a pond, and the final stroke the long stem of the plant reaching underwater. * As a primitive, this kanji can keep its pictographic meaning of a water lily. Koohii #1 There´s an even covering of water lilies on the pond at 金閣寺（きんかくじ） the Golden Pavilion in Kyoto. Koohii #2 Frogs stay dry (#1648) 干 even as rain drops on their lily pads... RTK2:　ヘイ　　平均　へいきん(an average)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　ビョウ　平等　びょうどう(equality). Primitives even, water-lily, lily pad 平均(ならし): equilibrium, balance, average, mean 平たい(ひらたい): flat, even, level, simple, plain 平行(へいこう): (going) side by side, concurrent, abreast, at the same time, occurring together, parallel, parallelism 平常(へいじょう): normal, usual 平方(へいほう): square (e.g. metre), square 公平(こうへい): fairness, impartial, justice 水平(すいへい): water level, horizon 水平線(すいへいせん): horizon 平ら(たいら): flatness, level, smooth, calm, plain 地平線(ちへいせん): horizon 平等(びょうどう): equality, impartiality, evenness 不平(ふへい): complaint, discontent, dissatisfaction 平気(へいき): coolness, calmness, composure, unconcern 平均(へいきん): equilibrium, balance, average, mean 平日(へいじつ): weekday, ordinary days 平凡(へいぼん): common, commonplace, ordinary, mediocre 平野(へいや): plain, open field 平和(へいわ): peace, harmony 平仮名(ひらがな): hiragana, 47 syllables, the cursive syllabary Kunyomi: たい.ら、-だいら、ひら、ひら- Onyomi: ヘイ、ビョウ、ヒョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 平面 (へいめん), 平和 (へいわ), 公平 (こうへい), 平ら (たい.ら), 平 (ひら)	even 平 画数5 1596 Details Story Dictionary 平 even Heisig's This character is easiest remembered as a pictograph of a water lily floating on the surface of the water, which gives it its meaning of even. The fourth stroke represents the calm, smooth surface of a pond, and the final stroke the long stem of the plant reaching underwater. * As a primitive, this kanji can keep its pictographic meaning of a water lily. Koohii #1 There´s an even covering of water lilies on the pond at 金閣寺（きんかくじ） the Golden Pavilion in Kyoto. Koohii #2 Frogs stay dry (#1648) 干 even as rain drops on their lily pads... RTK2:　ヘイ　　平均　へいきん(an average)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　ビョウ　平等　びょうどう(equality). Primitives even, water-lily, lily pad 平均(ならし): equilibrium, balance, average, mean 平たい(ひらたい): flat, even, level, simple, plain 平行(へいこう): (going) side by side, concurrent, abreast, at the same time, occurring together, parallel, parallelism 平常(へいじょう): normal, usual 平方(へいほう): square (e.g. metre), square 公平(こうへい): fairness, impartial, justice 水平(すいへい): water level, horizon 水平線(すいへいせん): horizon 平ら(たいら): flatness, level, smooth, calm, plain 地平線(ちへいせん): horizon 平等(びょうどう): equality, impartiality, evenness 不平(ふへい): complaint, discontent, dissatisfaction 平気(へいき): coolness, calmness, composure, unconcern 平均(へいきん): equilibrium, balance, average, mean 平日(へいじつ): weekday, ordinary days 平凡(へいぼん): common, commonplace, ordinary, mediocre 平野(へいや): plain, open field 平和(へいわ): peace, harmony 平仮名(ひらがな): hiragana, 47 syllables, the cursive syllabary Kunyomi: たい.ら、-だいら、ひら、ひら- Onyomi: ヘイ、ビョウ、ヒョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 平面 (へいめん), 平和 (へいわ), 公平 (こうへい), 平ら (たい.ら), 平 (ひら)
"call Details Story Dictionary 呼 call Heisig's Mouth . . . water lily. Note: this is the one time that the ""stem"" has a barb at the end. Work this fact into your story. Koohii #1 'Budd' - 'weis' - 'er' call the frogs mouths from the liliy pads, working to get you hooked on beer. Koohii #2 I´m a lazy fisher, so I genetically engineered a lily pad with a fishing hook at the stem and a mouth to call me whenever it catches something. Primitives call, mouth, even, water-lily, lily pad, question mark 嗚呼(ああ): Ah!, Oh!, Alas! 呼び止める(よびとめる): to challenge, to call somebody to halt 呼吸(こきゅう): breath, respiration, knack, trick, secret (of doing something) 呼び掛ける(よびかける): call out to, accost, address (crowd), make an appeal 呼び出す(よびだす): summon, call (e.g. via telephone) 呼ぶ(よぶ): call out, invite Kunyomi: よ.ぶ Onyomi: コ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 呼ぶ (よ.ぶ)"	"call 呼 画数8 1597 Details Story Dictionary 呼 call Heisig's Mouth . . . water lily. Note: this is the one time that the ""stem"" has a barb at the end. Work this fact into your story. Koohii #1 'Budd' - 'weis' - 'er' call the frogs mouths from the liliy pads, working to get you hooked on beer. Koohii #2 I´m a lazy fisher, so I genetically engineered a lily pad with a fishing hook at the stem and a mouth to call me whenever it catches something. Primitives call, mouth, even, water-lily, lily pad, question mark 嗚呼(ああ): Ah!, Oh!, Alas! 呼び止める(よびとめる): to challenge, to call somebody to halt 呼吸(こきゅう): breath, respiration, knack, trick, secret (of doing something) 呼び掛ける(よびかける): call out to, accost, address (crowd), make an appeal 呼び出す(よびだす): summon, call (e.g. via telephone) 呼ぶ(よぶ): call out, invite Kunyomi: よ.ぶ Onyomi: コ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 呼ぶ (よ.ぶ)"
two-mat area Details Story Dictionary 坪 two-mat area Heisig's This kanji belongs to an old Japanese system of measurement and indicates an area of about 36 square feet, or the area taken up by two tatami mats. Its elements: ground . . . water lily. Koohii #1 A two-mat area is just about as much ground as you will need for a lily pond. Koohii #2 A two-mat area is plenty of space for sleeping in a tent but you won´t be comfortable unless the ground is even. Primitives two-mat area, soil, dirt, ground, even, water-lily, lily pad Kunyomi: つぼ Onyomi: ヘイ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 坪 (つぼ)	two-mat area 坪 画数8 1598 Details Story Dictionary 坪 two-mat area Heisig's This kanji belongs to an old Japanese system of measurement and indicates an area of about 36 square feet, or the area taken up by two tatami mats. Its elements: ground . . . water lily. Koohii #1 A two-mat area is just about as much ground as you will need for a lily pond. Koohii #2 A two-mat area is plenty of space for sleeping in a tent but you won´t be comfortable unless the ground is even. Primitives two-mat area, soil, dirt, ground, even, water-lily, lily pad Kunyomi: つぼ Onyomi: ヘイ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 坪 (つぼ)
evaluate Details Story Dictionary 評 evaluate Heisig's Words . . . water lily. Koohii #1 Good evaluation should always be words of even fairness. Koohii #2 You get an evaluation copy of MS Word because you want to evaluate whether it´s worth buying the full version. At the end of the evaluation period the CD turns into a lilypad so you can´t use it any more (an innovative new copy-protection trick). Primitives evaluate, say, words, keitai, mouth, even, water-lily, lily pad 好評(こうひょう): popularity, favorable reputation 書評(しょひょう): book review 不評(ふひょう): bad reputation, disgrace, unpopularity 批評(ひひょう): criticism, review, commentary 評価(ひょうか): valuation, estimation, assessment, evaluation 評判(ひょうばん): fame, reputation, popularity, arrant 評論(ひょうろん): criticism, critique Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヒョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	evaluate 評 画数12 1599 Details Story Dictionary 評 evaluate Heisig's Words . . . water lily. Koohii #1 Good evaluation should always be words of even fairness. Koohii #2 You get an evaluation copy of MS Word because you want to evaluate whether it´s worth buying the full version. At the end of the evaluation period the CD turns into a lilypad so you can´t use it any more (an innovative new copy-protection trick). Primitives evaluate, say, words, keitai, mouth, even, water-lily, lily pad 好評(こうひょう): popularity, favorable reputation 書評(しょひょう): book review 不評(ふひょう): bad reputation, disgrace, unpopularity 批評(ひひょう): criticism, review, commentary 評価(ひょうか): valuation, estimation, assessment, evaluation 評判(ひょうばん): fame, reputation, popularity, arrant 評論(ひょうろん): criticism, critique Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヒョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
reap Details Story Dictionary 刈 reap Heisig's Sheaf . . . saber. Koohii #1 A SABRE is used to cut the stalks of plants being REAPED at harvest. They are then combined into a SHEAF. Koohii #2 The Grim Reaper´s name is メリ(Mary)…　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　Rare or no official Chinese reading. Primitives reap, sheaf, sword, sabre, saber 刈る(かる): cut (hair), mow (grass), clip, shear, trim, prune, harvest, reap Kunyomi: か.る Onyomi: ガイ、カイ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 刈る (か.る)	reap 刈 画数4 1600 Details Story Dictionary 刈 reap Heisig's Sheaf . . . saber. Koohii #1 A SABRE is used to cut the stalks of plants being REAPED at harvest. They are then combined into a SHEAF. Koohii #2 The Grim Reaper´s name is メリ(Mary)…　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　Rare or no official Chinese reading. Primitives reap, sheaf, sword, sabre, saber 刈る(かる): cut (hair), mow (grass), clip, shear, trim, prune, harvest, reap Kunyomi: か.る Onyomi: ガイ、カイ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 刈る (か.る)
"moment Details Story Dictionary 刹 moment Heisig's The key word here is the noun meaning ""a breif moment."" Its elements: sheaf . . . tree . . . saber. Koohii #1 The kendo artist takes a brief moment to practice his skills: he throws sheafs over the tree and tries to cut them with his saber when they come down again. Koohii #2 Wtf moment? This kanji means temple. Wooden x-men statues with sabres guard the entrance to the Professor Xavier temple. Might help if you imagine the two x-men as Wolverine and Sabretooth. Primitives moment, sheaf, tree, wood, sword, sabre, saber Kunyomi: Onyomi: セチ、セツ、サツ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"moment 刹 画数8 1601 Details Story Dictionary 刹 moment Heisig's The key word here is the noun meaning ""a breif moment."" Its elements: sheaf . . . tree . . . saber. Koohii #1 The kendo artist takes a brief moment to practice his skills: he throws sheafs over the tree and tries to cut them with his saber when they come down again. Koohii #2 Wtf moment? This kanji means temple. Wooden x-men statues with sabres guard the entrance to the Professor Xavier temple. Might help if you imagine the two x-men as Wolverine and Sabretooth. Primitives moment, sheaf, tree, wood, sword, sabre, saber Kunyomi: Onyomi: セチ、セツ、サツ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
hope Details Story Dictionary 希 hope My Story [メ + cloth/fabric {布}] I hope *Me* (メ) mum brings me clothes made from some fresh *fabric* - said the hype beast Koohii #1 I hope this works, you say as you stuff a sheaf of stalks under your blanket but above your linens. Your real hope is that your parents don´t find out that you left the house. Koohii #2 Wolverine (sheaf, see reap (#1488)) hopes they invent linen sheets that he won´t keep shredding in his sleep. Primitives hope, sheaf, linen, by one’s side, towel 希望(きぼう): hope, wish, aspiration Kunyomi: まれ Onyomi: キ、ケ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	hope 希 画数7 1602 Details Story Dictionary 希 hope My Story [メ + cloth/fabric {布}] I hope *Me* (メ) mum brings me clothes made from some fresh *fabric* - said the hype beast Koohii #1 I hope this works, you say as you stuff a sheaf of stalks under your blanket but above your linens. Your real hope is that your parents don´t find out that you left the house. Koohii #2 Wolverine (sheaf, see reap (#1488)) hopes they invent linen sheets that he won´t keep shredding in his sleep. Primitives hope, sheaf, linen, by one’s side, towel 希望(きぼう): hope, wish, aspiration Kunyomi: まれ Onyomi: キ、ケ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
villain Details Story Dictionary 凶 villain Heisig's Sheaf . . . shovel. Koohii #1 Here the villain digs a hole with a shovel and covers it with a sheaf, hoping someone will fall in. Koohii #2 Wolverine (sheaf, see reap (#1488)) takes out a villain who can´t be cut by smacking the crap out of him with a shovel. Primitives villain, sheaf, shovel 凶作(きょうさく): bad harvest, poor crop Kunyomi: Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	villain 凶 画数4 1603 Details Story Dictionary 凶 villain Heisig's Sheaf . . . shovel. Koohii #1 Here the villain digs a hole with a shovel and covers it with a sheaf, hoping someone will fall in. Koohii #2 Wolverine (sheaf, see reap (#1488)) takes out a villain who can´t be cut by smacking the crap out of him with a shovel. Primitives villain, sheaf, shovel 凶作(きょうさく): bad harvest, poor crop Kunyomi: Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
bosom Details Story Dictionary 胸 bosom Heisig's Part of the body . . . bound up . . . villain. Koohii #1 Just think of the heroine's bosom in a movie. The villain ties up the heroine (to the traintracks or the conveyor belt etc) but her bosom is the body part that is always left sticking out. Koohii #2 As you know, female comics villains are always binding the flesh of their bosom up in interesting ways. One has to wonder how these clothes stay on their body at all... Primitives bosom, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, bound up, villain, sheaf, shovel 胸(むね): breast, chest Kunyomi: むね、むな- Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 胸 (むね)	bosom 胸 画数10 1604 Details Story Dictionary 胸 bosom Heisig's Part of the body . . . bound up . . . villain. Koohii #1 Just think of the heroine's bosom in a movie. The villain ties up the heroine (to the traintracks or the conveyor belt etc) but her bosom is the body part that is always left sticking out. Koohii #2 As you know, female comics villains are always binding the flesh of their bosom up in interesting ways. One has to wonder how these clothes stay on their body at all... Primitives bosom, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, bound up, villain, sheaf, shovel 胸(むね): breast, chest Kunyomi: むね、むな- Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 胸 (むね)
"detach Details Story Dictionary 離 detach Heisig's Top hat . . . villain . . . belt . . . elbow . . . turkey. This is potentially one of the most difficult characters to remember. Tackle it positively and let the image ""sink in"" by carrying it around with you today and calling it up in your spare moments. Koohii #1 I´ve finally met my arch-rival, the evilest of all villains. Finally, I´m about to fight him. But what´s this? He´s suspiciously quiet. I move to attack him, and his right arm falls off at the elbow. Strange. I walk up to him and detach his left arm. Very strange. I undo his belt, and take off his top hat... BLAST! It was just a decoy turkey! Koohii #2 The left side isn't too hard---a top-hatted villain whose villainy involves belts around elbows? Clearly he's a drug dealer. And the best way to detach yourself from the drug dealer's influence is to go cold turkey. Primitives detach, sheik, top hat, villain, sheaf, shovel, belt, elbow, turkey 距離(きょり): distance, range 分離(ぶんり): separation, detachment, segregation, isolation 離す(はなす): part, divide, separate 離れる(はなれる): be separated from, leave, go away, be a long way off 離婚(りこん): divorce Kunyomi: はな.れる、はな.す Onyomi: リ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 離す (はな.す), 離れる (はな.れる)"	"detach 離 画数18 1605 Details Story Dictionary 離 detach Heisig's Top hat . . . villain . . . belt . . . elbow . . . turkey. This is potentially one of the most difficult characters to remember. Tackle it positively and let the image ""sink in"" by carrying it around with you today and calling it up in your spare moments. Koohii #1 I´ve finally met my arch-rival, the evilest of all villains. Finally, I´m about to fight him. But what´s this? He´s suspiciously quiet. I move to attack him, and his right arm falls off at the elbow. Strange. I walk up to him and detach his left arm. Very strange. I undo his belt, and take off his top hat... BLAST! It was just a decoy turkey! Koohii #2 The left side isn't too hard---a top-hatted villain whose villainy involves belts around elbows? Clearly he's a drug dealer. And the best way to detach yourself from the drug dealer's influence is to go cold turkey. Primitives detach, sheik, top hat, villain, sheaf, shovel, belt, elbow, turkey 距離(きょり): distance, range 分離(ぶんり): separation, detachment, segregation, isolation 離す(はなす): part, divide, separate 離れる(はなれる): be separated from, leave, go away, be a long way off 離婚(りこん): divorce Kunyomi: はな.れる、はな.す Onyomi: リ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 離す (はな.す), 離れる (はな.れる)"
crystal Details Story Dictionary 璃 crystal Heisig's This kanji refers to one of the seven classical stones of China. Its elements: jewel . . . top hat . . . villain . . . belt . . . elbow. Koohii #1 Michael Jackson is the king of pop, wearing his crystal rhinestone glove (see detach (#1492). Koohii #2 In my story for detatch detach (#1492), the left side primitive was junkie. The top-hatted villian of society with a belt around their elbow. Here, the junkie is getting a fix of crystal meth: the jewel in the crown of today´s drugs. Primitives crystal, king, jewel, ball, sheik, top hat, villain, sheaf, shovel, belt, elbow Kunyomi: Onyomi: リ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	crystal 璃 画数14 1606 Details Story Dictionary 璃 crystal Heisig's This kanji refers to one of the seven classical stones of China. Its elements: jewel . . . top hat . . . villain . . . belt . . . elbow. Koohii #1 Michael Jackson is the king of pop, wearing his crystal rhinestone glove (see detach (#1492). Koohii #2 In my story for detatch detach (#1492), the left side primitive was junkie. The top-hatted villian of society with a belt around their elbow. Here, the junkie is getting a fix of crystal meth: the jewel in the crown of today´s drugs. Primitives crystal, king, jewel, ball, sheik, top hat, villain, sheaf, shovel, belt, elbow Kunyomi: Onyomi: リ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
kill Details Story Dictionary 殺 kill Heisig's Sheaf . . . tree . . . missile. Koohii #1 X marks the spot on the tree where the missile hit. No doubt, it was meant to kill us. Koohii #2 I suppose when this kanji was made, it was most effective to kill your enemies with sheafs of wood used as missiles. Primitives kill, sheaf, tree, wood, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 暗殺(あんさつ): assassination 殺人(さつじん): murder 殺す(ころす): kill 自殺(じさつ): suicide Kunyomi: ころ.す、-ごろ.し、そ.ぐ Onyomi: サツ、サイ、セツ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 殺人 (さつじん), 殺到 (さっとう), 黙殺 (もくさつ), 相殺 (そうさい), 殺す (ころ.す)	kill 殺 画数10 1607 Details Story Dictionary 殺 kill Heisig's Sheaf . . . tree . . . missile. Koohii #1 X marks the spot on the tree where the missile hit. No doubt, it was meant to kill us. Koohii #2 I suppose when this kanji was made, it was most effective to kill your enemies with sheafs of wood used as missiles. Primitives kill, sheaf, tree, wood, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 暗殺(あんさつ): assassination 殺人(さつじん): murder 殺す(ころす): kill 自殺(じさつ): suicide Kunyomi: ころ.す、-ごろ.し、そ.ぐ Onyomi: サツ、サイ、セツ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 殺人 (さつじん), 殺到 (さっとう), 黙殺 (もくさつ), 相殺 (そうさい), 殺す (ころ.す)
bracing Details Story Dictionary 爽 bracing Heisig's The sense of the key word is of something refreshing and invigorating. It is made up of the St. Bernard and a pair of sheaves on each side. Koohii #1 The St Bernard is bracing itself for an operation requiring four stitches. Koohii #2 St. Bernard dog had a refreshing bracing bath and now is shaking all the water out of his fur. The drops are thrown in all direction and that's why the have an x shape in the pictogram. Primitives bracing, large, St. Bernard, sheaf, sheaf4 爽やか(さわやか): fresh, refreshing, invigorating, clear, fluent, eloquent Kunyomi: あき.らか、さわ.やか、たがう Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 爽やか (さわ.やか)	bracing 爽 画数11 1608 Details Story Dictionary 爽 bracing Heisig's The sense of the key word is of something refreshing and invigorating. It is made up of the St. Bernard and a pair of sheaves on each side. Koohii #1 The St Bernard is bracing itself for an operation requiring four stitches. Koohii #2 St. Bernard dog had a refreshing bracing bath and now is shaking all the water out of his fur. The drops are thrown in all direction and that's why the have an x shape in the pictogram. Primitives bracing, large, St. Bernard, sheaf, sheaf4 爽やか(さわやか): fresh, refreshing, invigorating, clear, fluent, eloquent Kunyomi: あき.らか、さわ.やか、たがう Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 爽やか (さわ.やか)
genuine Details Story Dictionary 純 genuine Heisig's Thread . . . earthworm. Koohii #1 For remembering the primitive earthworm: Drops of rain were falling so I took my shovel to dig up some earthworms to put them on my fishook..... My story: To have a genuine fishing line you don't just pick up a stick but you also attach some thread onto it and at the end an earthworm must be hung. Koohii #2 You need to attach a genuine earthworm to the thread. With plastic bait you won´t catch anything. Primitives genuine, thread, spiderman, earthworm, drop, shovel, fishhook 清純(せいじゅん): purity, innocence 純情(じゅんじょう): pure heart, naivete, self-sacrificing devotion 純粋(じゅんすい): pure, true, genuine, unmixed 単純(たんじゅん): simplicity Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジュン Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	genuine 純 画数10 1609 Details Story Dictionary 純 genuine Heisig's Thread . . . earthworm. Koohii #1 For remembering the primitive earthworm: Drops of rain were falling so I took my shovel to dig up some earthworms to put them on my fishook..... My story: To have a genuine fishing line you don't just pick up a stick but you also attach some thread onto it and at the end an earthworm must be hung. Koohii #2 You need to attach a genuine earthworm to the thread. With plastic bait you won´t catch anything. Primitives genuine, thread, spiderman, earthworm, drop, shovel, fishhook 清純(せいじゅん): purity, innocence 純情(じゅんじょう): pure heart, naivete, self-sacrificing devotion 純粋(じゅんすい): pure, true, genuine, unmixed 単純(たんじゅん): simplicity Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジュン Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
immediate Details Story Dictionary 頓 immediate Heisig's Earthworm . . . head. Koohii #1 Ever chopped the head off an earthworm? Notice how it will grow back immediately! Beware the killer earthworms... Koohii #2 When someone in the barracks tells you to come immediately, you´ll lose your head for sure トン トツ にわか.に とん.と つまず.く とみ.に ぬかずく suddenly; immediately; in a hurry. Primitives immediate, earthworm, drop, shovel, fishhook, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: にわか.に、とん.と、つまず.く、とみ.に、ぬかずく Onyomi: トン、トツ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	immediate 頓 画数13 1610 Details Story Dictionary 頓 immediate Heisig's Earthworm . . . head. Koohii #1 Ever chopped the head off an earthworm? Notice how it will grow back immediately! Beware the killer earthworms... Koohii #2 When someone in the barracks tells you to come immediately, you´ll lose your head for sure トン トツ にわか.に とん.と つまず.く とみ.に ぬかずく suddenly; immediately; in a hurry. Primitives immediate, earthworm, drop, shovel, fishhook, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: にわか.に、とん.と、つまず.く、とみ.に、ぬかずく Onyomi: トン、トツ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
dull Details Story Dictionary 鈍 dull Heisig's Metal . . . earthworm. Koohii #1 The metal hook is too dull to even pierce an earthworm.... Koohii #2 From the earthworm´s perspective, it most be pretty dull when you are put in a metal bowl, just waiting for being put on the hook on the fishing trip the next day. Primitives dull, metal, gold, earthworm, drop, shovel, fishhook 鈍感(どんかん): thickheadedness, stolidity 鈍る(なまる): to become less capable, to grow dull, to become blunt, to weaken 鈍い(にぶい): dull (e.g. a knife), thickheaded, slow, stupid 鈍い(のろい): dull (e.g. a knife), thickheaded, slow, stupid Kunyomi: にぶ.い、にぶ.る、にぶ-、なま.る、なまく.ら Onyomi: ドン Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 鈍い (にぶ.い), 鈍る (にぶ.る)	dull 鈍 画数12 1611 Details Story Dictionary 鈍 dull Heisig's Metal . . . earthworm. Koohii #1 The metal hook is too dull to even pierce an earthworm.... Koohii #2 From the earthworm´s perspective, it most be pretty dull when you are put in a metal bowl, just waiting for being put on the hook on the fishing trip the next day. Primitives dull, metal, gold, earthworm, drop, shovel, fishhook 鈍感(どんかん): thickheadedness, stolidity 鈍る(なまる): to become less capable, to grow dull, to become blunt, to weaken 鈍い(にぶい): dull (e.g. a knife), thickheaded, slow, stupid 鈍い(のろい): dull (e.g. a knife), thickheaded, slow, stupid Kunyomi: にぶ.い、にぶ.る、にぶ-、なま.る、なまく.ら Onyomi: ドン Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 鈍い (にぶ.い), 鈍る (にぶ.る)
spicy Details Story Dictionary 辛 spicy My Story This spicy sauce is hotter than *ten* peppers *standing* end to end. * As a primitive, we shall use this meaning of spicy, except when the two extra strokes are added to the bottom, giving it the form of a tree. Then we take its alternate meaning of a red pepper plant. The connection is obvious. Koohii #1 Eating spicy food makes you stand up ten times faster than usual, ´cause you just need to get something to drink! Koohii #2 Eating spicy food makes you stand up as if you had sat on a needle. Primitives spicy, stand up, vase, ten, needle 辛うじて(かろうじて): barely, narrowly, just manage to do st 香辛料(こうしんりょう): spices 辛抱(しんぼう): patience, endurance 塩辛い(しおからい): salty (flavor) 辛い(つらい): painful, heart-breaking 辛い(からい): painful, heart-breaking Kunyomi: から.い、つら.い、-づら.い、かのと Onyomi: シン Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 辛い (から.い)	spicy 辛 画数7 1612 Details Story Dictionary 辛 spicy My Story This spicy sauce is hotter than *ten* peppers *standing* end to end. * As a primitive, we shall use this meaning of spicy, except when the two extra strokes are added to the bottom, giving it the form of a tree. Then we take its alternate meaning of a red pepper plant. The connection is obvious. Koohii #1 Eating spicy food makes you stand up ten times faster than usual, ´cause you just need to get something to drink! Koohii #2 Eating spicy food makes you stand up as if you had sat on a needle. Primitives spicy, stand up, vase, ten, needle 辛うじて(かろうじて): barely, narrowly, just manage to do st 香辛料(こうしんりょう): spices 辛抱(しんぼう): patience, endurance 塩辛い(しおからい): salty (flavor) 辛い(つらい): painful, heart-breaking 辛い(からい): painful, heart-breaking Kunyomi: から.い、つら.い、-づら.い、かのと Onyomi: シン Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 辛い (から.い)
resign / quit Details Story Dictionary 辞 resign / quit My Story [Tongue {舌} + Spicy {辛}] A CEO lashed out his spicy tongue (ie. made an inappropriate comment) and is being made to resign for it. Koohii #1 This guy´s job is tasting the spicy curry at the local Indian Food Factory. He has to resign from his job before his tongue is rendered completely useless after all the spicy food that he has to try all day long... Koohii #2 After my tongue touched the most spicy pepper of all, I had to resign from the contest...too hot for me! Primitives resign, tongue, thousand, mouth, spicy, stand up, vase, ten, needle お世辞(おせじ): flattery, compliment 辞職(じしょく): resignation 辞退(じたい): refusal 世辞(せじ): flattery, compliment 百科辞典(ひゃっかじてん): encyclopedia 御辞儀(おじぎ): bow 辞める(やめる): retire 辞典(じてん): dictionary 辞書(じしょ): dictionary, lexicon Kunyomi: や.める、いな.む Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 辞める (や.める)	resign / quit 辞 画数13 1613 Details Story Dictionary 辞 resign / quit My Story [Tongue {舌} + Spicy {辛}] A CEO lashed out his spicy tongue (ie. made an inappropriate comment) and is being made to resign for it. Koohii #1 This guy´s job is tasting the spicy curry at the local Indian Food Factory. He has to resign from his job before his tongue is rendered completely useless after all the spicy food that he has to try all day long... Koohii #2 After my tongue touched the most spicy pepper of all, I had to resign from the contest...too hot for me! Primitives resign, tongue, thousand, mouth, spicy, stand up, vase, ten, needle お世辞(おせじ): flattery, compliment 辞職(じしょく): resignation 辞退(じたい): refusal 世辞(せじ): flattery, compliment 百科辞典(ひゃっかじてん): encyclopedia 御辞儀(おじぎ): bow 辞める(やめる): retire 辞典(じてん): dictionary 辞書(じしょ): dictionary, lexicon Kunyomi: や.める、いな.む Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 辞める (や.める)
"catalpa Details Story Dictionary 梓 catalpa Heisig's Tree . . . spicy. Koohii #1 The CATALPA is the tree that bears the SPICY Indian bean (NOTE - The Catalpa is also known as the ""Indian Bean"" due to the bean pods that grow from it). Koohii #2 The caterpillar´s favorite tree is the catalpa because it tastes spicy. Primitives catalpa, tree, wood, spicy, stand up, vase, ten, needle Kunyomi: あずさ Onyomi: シ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"catalpa 梓 画数11 1614 Details Story Dictionary 梓 catalpa Heisig's Tree . . . spicy. Koohii #1 The CATALPA is the tree that bears the SPICY Indian bean (NOTE - The Catalpa is also known as the ""Indian Bean"" due to the bean pods that grow from it). Koohii #2 The caterpillar´s favorite tree is the catalpa because it tastes spicy. Primitives catalpa, tree, wood, spicy, stand up, vase, ten, needle Kunyomi: あずさ Onyomi: シ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
superintend Details Story Dictionary 宰 superintend Heisig's House . . . spicy. Koohii #1 The superintendent of a Japanese school district needs a spicy relationship at home after watching girls in miniskirts all day. Koohii #2 The superintendent of an old-age house has to make sure the food is never too spicy. Primitives superintend, house, spicy, stand up, vase, ten, needle Kunyomi: Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	superintend 宰 画数10 1615 Details Story Dictionary 宰 superintend Heisig's House . . . spicy. Koohii #1 The superintendent of a Japanese school district needs a spicy relationship at home after watching girls in miniskirts all day. Koohii #2 The superintendent of an old-age house has to make sure the food is never too spicy. Primitives superintend, house, spicy, stand up, vase, ten, needle Kunyomi: Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
wall Details Story Dictionary 壁 wall Heisig's Ketchup . . . ground. Koohii #1 Did anyone else used to put ketchup packets on the ground and jump on them so they spattered on the wall? Koohii #2 Primitive for Ketchup: When the taste is too spicy your mouth has basically given up trying to handle it ..or in other words raised the white flag of surrender. But unlike war , putting Ketchup on it will usually solve the problem. Wall(dingomick); Did anyone else used to put ketchup packets on the ground and jump on them so they spattered on the wall? Primitives wall, ketchup, flag, mouth, spicy, stand up, vase, ten, needle, soil, dirt, ground 壁(かべ): wall Kunyomi: かべ Onyomi: ヘキ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 壁 (かべ)	wall 壁 画数16 1616 Details Story Dictionary 壁 wall Heisig's Ketchup . . . ground. Koohii #1 Did anyone else used to put ketchup packets on the ground and jump on them so they spattered on the wall? Koohii #2 Primitive for Ketchup: When the taste is too spicy your mouth has basically given up trying to handle it ..or in other words raised the white flag of surrender. But unlike war , putting Ketchup on it will usually solve the problem. Wall(dingomick); Did anyone else used to put ketchup packets on the ground and jump on them so they spattered on the wall? Primitives wall, ketchup, flag, mouth, spicy, stand up, vase, ten, needle, soil, dirt, ground 壁(かべ): wall Kunyomi: かべ Onyomi: ヘキ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 壁 (かべ)
holed gem Details Story Dictionary 璧 holed gem Heisig's The holed gem to which this kanji refers is a flat, circular object of about a foot in length, made of stone or glass and having a large hole in the middle. It's elements: ketchup . . . ball. Koohii #1 Even more valuable and perfect (完璧) than a holed gem is a delicious meatball (ball = たま = 玉) with ketchup. Yum! Koohii #2 It's a little known fact that ketchup is highly corrosive and is used to cut holes into gemstones so they can be put onto chains. This kanji shows a piece of Jade with a blob of ketchup on the top eating a hole through it. Kunyomi: たま Onyomi: ヘキ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	holed gem 璧 画数18 1617 Details Story Dictionary 璧 holed gem Heisig's The holed gem to which this kanji refers is a flat, circular object of about a foot in length, made of stone or glass and having a large hole in the middle. It's elements: ketchup . . . ball. Koohii #1 Even more valuable and perfect (完璧) than a holed gem is a delicious meatball (ball = たま = 玉) with ketchup. Yum! Koohii #2 It's a little known fact that ketchup is highly corrosive and is used to cut holes into gemstones so they can be put onto chains. This kanji shows a piece of Jade with a blob of ketchup on the top eating a hole through it. Kunyomi: たま Onyomi: ヘキ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
evade Details Story Dictionary 避 evade Heisig's Ketchup . . . road. Koohii #1 You can try and evade them, but they´ll ketchup with you on the road... Sorry, couldn´t resist it. Koohii #2 In order to evade the bear, you lie down on the road, put ketchup on yourself, and play dead. Primitives evade, ketchup, flag, mouth, spicy, stand up, vase, ten, needle, road 避難(ひなん): taking refuge, finding shelter 避ける(さける): avoid (situation), ward off, to avert Kunyomi: さ.ける、よ.ける Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 避ける (さ.ける)	evade 避 画数16 1618 Details Story Dictionary 避 evade Heisig's Ketchup . . . road. Koohii #1 You can try and evade them, but they´ll ketchup with you on the road... Sorry, couldn´t resist it. Koohii #2 In order to evade the bear, you lie down on the road, put ketchup on yourself, and play dead. Primitives evade, ketchup, flag, mouth, spicy, stand up, vase, ten, needle, road 避難(ひなん): taking refuge, finding shelter 避ける(さける): avoid (situation), ward off, to avert Kunyomi: さ.ける、よ.ける Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 避ける (さ.ける)
new Details Story Dictionary 新 new Heisig's Red pepper . . . ax. Koohii #1 Don't confuse left primitive with catalpa (#1498). Every time the farmer cuts down the peppers from the red pepper plant, he has to use a brand new axe. This is because the spicy peppers cause the metal to erode very quickly, thereby rendering the axe completely useless. Koohii #2 Axe-man grows a patch of red pepper plants in his back garden. He rubs red peppers on the edge of his axes, and this seems to keep them sharp like brand new. Primitives new, red pepper, stand up, vase, tree, wood, axe 革新(かくしん): reform, innovation 新(しん): new 新興(しんこう): rising, developing, emergent 新婚(しんこん): newly-wed 新人(しんじん): new face, newcomer 新築(しんちく): new building, new construction 新入生(しんにゅうせい): freshman, first-year student 新た(あらた): new, fresh 新幹線(しんかんせん): bullet train 新鮮(しんせん): fresh 新聞社(しんぶんしゃ): newspaper office 新しい(あたらしい): new 新聞(しんぶん): newspaper Kunyomi: あたら.しい、あら.た、あら-、にい- Onyomi: シン Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 新しい (あたら.しい), 新た (あら.た), 新 (にい)	new 新 画数13 1619 Details Story Dictionary 新 new Heisig's Red pepper . . . ax. Koohii #1 Don't confuse left primitive with catalpa (#1498). Every time the farmer cuts down the peppers from the red pepper plant, he has to use a brand new axe. This is because the spicy peppers cause the metal to erode very quickly, thereby rendering the axe completely useless. Koohii #2 Axe-man grows a patch of red pepper plants in his back garden. He rubs red peppers on the edge of his axes, and this seems to keep them sharp like brand new. Primitives new, red pepper, stand up, vase, tree, wood, axe 革新(かくしん): reform, innovation 新(しん): new 新興(しんこう): rising, developing, emergent 新婚(しんこん): newly-wed 新人(しんじん): new face, newcomer 新築(しんちく): new building, new construction 新入生(しんにゅうせい): freshman, first-year student 新た(あらた): new, fresh 新幹線(しんかんせん): bullet train 新鮮(しんせん): fresh 新聞社(しんぶんしゃ): newspaper office 新しい(あたらしい): new 新聞(しんぶん): newspaper Kunyomi: あたら.しい、あら.た、あら-、にい- Onyomi: シン Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 新しい (あたら.しい), 新た (あら.た), 新 (にい)
firewood Details Story Dictionary 薪 firewood Heisig's Flowers . . . new. Koohii #1 New flowers grow in areas of forests which have been chopped down for firewood. Koohii #2 If your firewood is too new and still has flowers on it, it´s unsuitable for burning. You need drier wood. Primitives fuel, firewood, flowers, new, red pepper, stand up, vase, tree, wood, axe Kunyomi: たきぎ、まき Onyomi: シン Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 薪 (たきぎ)	firewood 薪 画数16 1620 Details Story Dictionary 薪 firewood Heisig's Flowers . . . new. Koohii #1 New flowers grow in areas of forests which have been chopped down for firewood. Koohii #2 If your firewood is too new and still has flowers on it, it´s unsuitable for burning. You need drier wood. Primitives fuel, firewood, flowers, new, red pepper, stand up, vase, tree, wood, axe Kunyomi: たきぎ、まき Onyomi: シン Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 薪 (たきぎ)
"parent Details Story Dictionary 親 parent My Story [Stand/rise {立} + Tree + see {見}] *Standing* on top of this *tree*, I can *see* my parents' house! Hi, Mom! Hi, Dad! Koohii #1 A wise parent lets their kids learn. A kid wants to try to eat the red pepper plant, the wise parent says ""Try it and see for yourself"". Koohii #2 I remember this one the way the Japanese do: a parent standing on top of a tree watching what his or her kid is doing. Primitives parent, red pepper, stand up, vase, tree, wood, see, telescope, eye, human legs 親しむ(したしむ): to be intimate with, to befriend 親善(しんぜん): friendship 肉親(にくしん): blood relationship, blood relative 親(おや): parents 親指(おやゆび): thumb 親しい(したしい): intimate, close 親友(しんゆう): close friend 親戚(しんせき): relative 親類(しんるい): relation, kin 父親(ちちおや): father 母親(ははおや): mother 親切(しんせつ): kind 両親(りょうしん): parents, both parents Kunyomi: おや、おや-、した.しい、した.しむ Onyomi: シン Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 親 (おや), 親しい (した.しい), 親しむ (した.しむ)"	"parent 親 画数16 1621 Details Story Dictionary 親 parent My Story [Stand/rise {立} + Tree + see {見}] *Standing* on top of this *tree*, I can *see* my parents' house! Hi, Mom! Hi, Dad! Koohii #1 A wise parent lets their kids learn. A kid wants to try to eat the red pepper plant, the wise parent says ""Try it and see for yourself"". Koohii #2 I remember this one the way the Japanese do: a parent standing on top of a tree watching what his or her kid is doing. Primitives parent, red pepper, stand up, vase, tree, wood, see, telescope, eye, human legs 親しむ(したしむ): to be intimate with, to befriend 親善(しんぜん): friendship 肉親(にくしん): blood relationship, blood relative 親(おや): parents 親指(おやゆび): thumb 親しい(したしい): intimate, close 親友(しんゆう): close friend 親戚(しんせき): relative 親類(しんるい): relation, kin 父親(ちちおや): father 母親(ははおや): mother 親切(しんせつ): kind 両親(りょうしん): parents, both parents Kunyomi: おや、おや-、した.しい、した.しむ Onyomi: シン Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 親 (おや), 親しい (した.しい), 親しむ (した.しむ)"
happiness Details Story Dictionary 幸 happiness Heisig's Simply by turning the dot at the top of the primitive for spicy into a cross shape, we move from things bitter and spicy to things happy. Koohii #1 Happiness adds a bit (or ten) of spice to your life. Koohii #2 This is one of those rare occasions when I forgo Heisig for other methods. 「幸せから一本取ると辛い」 -- if you take but one stroke away from happiness, you get painfulness. (oh well, Heisig used similar one for 百). Primitives happiness, ten, needle, stand up, vase, ten, needle, ten2, needle2 幸運(こううん): good luck, fortune 幸福(こうふく): happiness, blessedness 幸い(さいわい): happiness, blessedness 幸せ(しあわせ): happiness, good fortune, luck, blessing 不幸(ふこう): unhappiness, sorrow, misfortune, disaster, accident, death Kunyomi: さいわ.い、さち、しあわ.せ Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 幸い (さいわ.い), 幸 (さち), 幸せ (しあわ.せ)	happiness 幸 画数8 1622 Details Story Dictionary 幸 happiness Heisig's Simply by turning the dot at the top of the primitive for spicy into a cross shape, we move from things bitter and spicy to things happy. Koohii #1 Happiness adds a bit (or ten) of spice to your life. Koohii #2 This is one of those rare occasions when I forgo Heisig for other methods. 「幸せから一本取ると辛い」 -- if you take but one stroke away from happiness, you get painfulness. (oh well, Heisig used similar one for 百). Primitives happiness, ten, needle, stand up, vase, ten, needle, ten2, needle2 幸運(こううん): good luck, fortune 幸福(こうふく): happiness, blessedness 幸い(さいわい): happiness, blessedness 幸せ(しあわせ): happiness, good fortune, luck, blessing 不幸(ふこう): unhappiness, sorrow, misfortune, disaster, accident, death Kunyomi: さいわ.い、さち、しあわ.せ Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 幸い (さいわ.い), 幸 (さち), 幸せ (しあわ.せ)
tenacious Details Story Dictionary 執 tenacious Heisig's Happiness . . . fat man. Koohii #1 Tenacious-D is happy band led by a fat man. (It´s Tenacious-D time, ya muthafucka´, gwaoh!). Koohii #2 To be tenacious, you need to have deep stores of happiness (so troubles don´t discourage you) and you need to be big and round (so hunger doesn´t drive you to give up). The most tenacious person of all time was happy round Buddha! Primitives tenacious, happiness, ten, needle, stand up, vase, fat man, musashimaru, nine, baseball, drop, ten2, needle2 執着(しゅうじゃく): attachment, adhesion, tenacity 執筆(しっぴつ): writing Kunyomi: と.る Onyomi: シツ、シュウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 執務 (しつむ), 執筆 (しっぴつ), 確執 (かくしつ), 執る (と.る)	tenacious 執 画数11 1623 Details Story Dictionary 執 tenacious Heisig's Happiness . . . fat man. Koohii #1 Tenacious-D is happy band led by a fat man. (It´s Tenacious-D time, ya muthafucka´, gwaoh!). Koohii #2 To be tenacious, you need to have deep stores of happiness (so troubles don´t discourage you) and you need to be big and round (so hunger doesn´t drive you to give up). The most tenacious person of all time was happy round Buddha! Primitives tenacious, happiness, ten, needle, stand up, vase, fat man, musashimaru, nine, baseball, drop, ten2, needle2 執着(しゅうじゃく): attachment, adhesion, tenacity 執筆(しっぴつ): writing Kunyomi: と.る Onyomi: シツ、シュウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 執務 (しつむ), 執筆 (しっぴつ), 確執 (かくしつ), 執る (と.る)
clasp Details Story Dictionary 摯 clasp Heisig's Of the many and widely different meanings of this kanji, we select the verbal meaning of clasp, which fits in well with its primitive elements: tenacious . . . hand. Koohii #1 When you clasp something you tenaciously 執 hold on to it with your hand 手, te. 真摯、しんし, sincerity, earnestness. Koohii #2 This kanji shows Santa Claus (refer to frame tenacious (#1506)) clasping the reins of his deers with his hands, holding onto dear life as he almost falls off his carriage. Kunyomi: いた.る Onyomi: シ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	clasp 摯 画数15 1624 Details Story Dictionary 摯 clasp Heisig's Of the many and widely different meanings of this kanji, we select the verbal meaning of clasp, which fits in well with its primitive elements: tenacious . . . hand. Koohii #1 When you clasp something you tenaciously 執 hold on to it with your hand 手, te. 真摯、しんし, sincerity, earnestness. Koohii #2 This kanji shows Santa Claus (refer to frame tenacious (#1506)) clasping the reins of his deers with his hands, holding onto dear life as he almost falls off his carriage. Kunyomi: いた.る Onyomi: シ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
report Details Story Dictionary 報 report My Story There was a report saying that un*happy* people were found in their *closest* (wardrobe) Koohii #1 Recall the fashion model wearing just a stamp over his crotch (clothing (#1399)). When he got happy, of course, it ended up in the news report. Koohii #2 The long awaited report, 'Maximising Male Happiness In The Workplace' concluded that making bikinis, with only a stamp sized piece of cloth covering the crotch, compulsory for attractive female staff, was the most cost-effective means of achieving this aim. Primitives report, happiness, ten, needle, stand up, vase, underpants, stamp, crotch, ten2, needle2 報酬(ほうしゅう): remuneration, recompense, reward, toll 報じる(ほうじる): to inform, to report 報ずる(ほうずる): to inform, to report 報道(ほうどう): information, report 情報(じょうほう): information, news, (military) intelligence, gossip 報告(ほうこく): report, information 予報(よほう): forecast, prediction 天気予報(てんきよほう): weather forecast 電報(でんぽう): telegram Kunyomi: むく.いる Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 報いる (むく.いる)	report 報 画数12 1625 Details Story Dictionary 報 report My Story There was a report saying that un*happy* people were found in their *closest* (wardrobe) Koohii #1 Recall the fashion model wearing just a stamp over his crotch (clothing (#1399)). When he got happy, of course, it ended up in the news report. Koohii #2 The long awaited report, 'Maximising Male Happiness In The Workplace' concluded that making bikinis, with only a stamp sized piece of cloth covering the crotch, compulsory for attractive female staff, was the most cost-effective means of achieving this aim. Primitives report, happiness, ten, needle, stand up, vase, underpants, stamp, crotch, ten2, needle2 報酬(ほうしゅう): remuneration, recompense, reward, toll 報じる(ほうじる): to inform, to report 報ずる(ほうずる): to inform, to report 報道(ほうどう): information, report 情報(じょうほう): information, news, (military) intelligence, gossip 報告(ほうこく): report, information 予報(よほう): forecast, prediction 天気予報(てんきよほう): weather forecast 電報(でんぽう): telegram Kunyomi: むく.いる Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 報いる (むく.いる)
shout Details Story Dictionary 叫 shout Heisig's Mouth . . . cornucopia. Koohii #1 There was a man in a village who had a special gift : whenever he shouted and screamed, his mouth became a cornucopia, overflowing with fruits and food of all sorts. Many of the locals thought he was a cruel man, always screaming at his wife, until they realised he was in fact very kind, and his gift brought prosperity to his family. Koohii #2 You can hold a CORNUCOPIA up to your MOUTH (like a megaphone) to SHOUT lounder. Also notice that the shape of CORNUCOPIA implies the shouts are 4 letter words. Primitives shout, mouth, cornucopia 叫び(さけび): shout, scream, outcry 叫ぶ(さけぶ): shout, cry out Kunyomi: さけ.ぶ Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 叫ぶ (さけ.ぶ)	shout 叫 画数6 1626 Details Story Dictionary 叫 shout Heisig's Mouth . . . cornucopia. Koohii #1 There was a man in a village who had a special gift : whenever he shouted and screamed, his mouth became a cornucopia, overflowing with fruits and food of all sorts. Many of the locals thought he was a cruel man, always screaming at his wife, until they realised he was in fact very kind, and his gift brought prosperity to his family. Koohii #2 You can hold a CORNUCOPIA up to your MOUTH (like a megaphone) to SHOUT lounder. Also notice that the shape of CORNUCOPIA implies the shouts are 4 letter words. Primitives shout, mouth, cornucopia 叫び(さけび): shout, scream, outcry 叫ぶ(さけぶ): shout, cry out Kunyomi: さけ.ぶ Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 叫ぶ (さけ.ぶ)
twist Details Story Dictionary 糾 twist Heisig's Thread . . . cornucopia. Koohii #1 A cornucopia is a twisted goat's horn decorated with coloured threads. Koohii #2 [twist; ask; investigate; verify] Stories full of twists are difficult to write, because of the cornucopia of threads the author has to manage. Primitives twist, thread, spiderman, cornucopia Kunyomi: ただ.す Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	twist 糾 画数9 1627 Details Story Dictionary 糾 twist Heisig's Thread . . . cornucopia. Koohii #1 A cornucopia is a twisted goat's horn decorated with coloured threads. Koohii #2 [twist; ask; investigate; verify] Stories full of twists are difficult to write, because of the cornucopia of threads the author has to manage. Primitives twist, thread, spiderman, cornucopia Kunyomi: ただ.す Onyomi: キュウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"income Details Story Dictionary 収 income Heisig's Cornucopia . . . crotch. Keep distinct from both fare (Frame 1079) and salary (Frame 1449). Koohii #1 Prostitutes can make a veritable cornucopia of income by using their crotches -- they put the ""come"" in ""income."" (A bit lewd perhaps, but effective in keeping this character distinct from similar keywords like profit (#906) or earnings (#893)). Koohii #2 Women love men with money. If you have a high income you can get a cornicopia of crotches. Primitives income, cornucopia, crotch 収まる(おさまる): to be obtained, to end, to settle into, to fit into, to be settled, to be paid, to be delivered 収める(おさめる): to obtain, to reap, to pay, to supply, to accept 回収(かいしゅう): collection, recovery 収益(しゅうえき): earnings, proceeds, returns 収支(しゅうし): income and expenditure 収集(しゅうしゅう): gathering up, collection, accumulation 収容(しゅうよう): accommodation, reception, seating, housing, custody, admission, entering (in a dictionary) 徴収(ちょうしゅう): collection, levy 没収(ぼっしゅう): forfeited 吸収(きゅうしゅう): absorption, suction, attraction 収穫(しゅうかく): harvest, crop, ingathering 収入(しゅうにゅう): income, receipts, revenue 領収(りょうしゅう): receipt, voucher Kunyomi: おさ.める、おさ.まる Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 収まる (おさ.まる), 収める (おさ.める)"	"income 収 画数4 1628 Details Story Dictionary 収 income Heisig's Cornucopia . . . crotch. Keep distinct from both fare (Frame 1079) and salary (Frame 1449). Koohii #1 Prostitutes can make a veritable cornucopia of income by using their crotches -- they put the ""come"" in ""income."" (A bit lewd perhaps, but effective in keeping this character distinct from similar keywords like profit (#906) or earnings (#893)). Koohii #2 Women love men with money. If you have a high income you can get a cornicopia of crotches. Primitives income, cornucopia, crotch 収まる(おさまる): to be obtained, to end, to settle into, to fit into, to be settled, to be paid, to be delivered 収める(おさめる): to obtain, to reap, to pay, to supply, to accept 回収(かいしゅう): collection, recovery 収益(しゅうえき): earnings, proceeds, returns 収支(しゅうし): income and expenditure 収集(しゅうしゅう): gathering up, collection, accumulation 収容(しゅうよう): accommodation, reception, seating, housing, custody, admission, entering (in a dictionary) 徴収(ちょうしゅう): collection, levy 没収(ぼっしゅう): forfeited 吸収(きゅうしゅう): absorption, suction, attraction 収穫(しゅうかく): harvest, crop, ingathering 収入(しゅうにゅう): income, receipts, revenue 領収(りょうしゅう): receipt, voucher Kunyomi: おさ.める、おさ.まる Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 収まる (おさ.まる), 収める (おさ.める)"
lowly Details Story Dictionary 卑 lowly My Story A lowly *grain of rice* is *glued* to the bottom of a lowly field with a single grain of rice Koohii #1 Lowly people only have a drop of brains and use nothing but 4-letter words. Koohii #2 A LOWLY single rice grain, DROPPED in an empty FIELD, can produce a CORNUCOPIA of food. Primitives lowly, Wayne Slob, drop, rice field, brains, cornucopia, ten, needle 卑しい(いやしい): greedy, vulgar, shabby, humble, base, mean, vile 卑怯(ひきょう): cowardice, meanness, unfairness Kunyomi: いや.しい、いや.しむ、いや.しめる Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 卑しい (いや.しい), 卑しむ (いや.しむ), 卑しめる (いや.しめる)	lowly 卑 画数9 1629 Details Story Dictionary 卑 lowly My Story A lowly *grain of rice* is *glued* to the bottom of a lowly field with a single grain of rice Koohii #1 Lowly people only have a drop of brains and use nothing but 4-letter words. Koohii #2 A LOWLY single rice grain, DROPPED in an empty FIELD, can produce a CORNUCOPIA of food. Primitives lowly, Wayne Slob, drop, rice field, brains, cornucopia, ten, needle 卑しい(いやしい): greedy, vulgar, shabby, humble, base, mean, vile 卑怯(ひきょう): cowardice, meanness, unfairness Kunyomi: いや.しい、いや.しむ、いや.しめる Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 卑しい (いや.しい), 卑しむ (いや.しむ), 卑しめる (いや.しめる)
tombstone Details Story Dictionary 碑 tombstone Heisig's Rock . . . lowly. Koohii #1 There is a grave of a lowly man with a tombstone made of a simple, small stone. If you bow really low you can read the very small inscription engraved on the stone, it says - “Now that you bowed so low to read this, you are as lowly as I once was”. Koohii #2 A STONE makes a LOWLY TOMBSTONE. Primitives tombstone, stone, rock, lowly, Wayne Slob, drop, rice field, brains, cornucopia, ten, needle 碑(いしぶみ): stone monument bearing an inscription Kunyomi: いしぶみ Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	tombstone 碑 画数14 1630 Details Story Dictionary 碑 tombstone Heisig's Rock . . . lowly. Koohii #1 There is a grave of a lowly man with a tombstone made of a simple, small stone. If you bow really low you can read the very small inscription engraved on the stone, it says - “Now that you bowed so low to read this, you are as lowly as I once was”. Koohii #2 A STONE makes a LOWLY TOMBSTONE. Primitives tombstone, stone, rock, lowly, Wayne Slob, drop, rice field, brains, cornucopia, ten, needle 碑(いしぶみ): stone monument bearing an inscription Kunyomi: いしぶみ Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"land Details Story Dictionary 陸 land Heisig's The sense of land carried by this kanji is distinct from soil (Frame 161) and ground (Frame 554) in that it is meant to represent land seen from a distance, that is, land as opposed to ""water."" Its elements: pinnacle . . . rice seedlings . . . ground. Koohii #1 My rice-seedlings have become sentient and will go on a mission. I can only apologise for the next 6 frames. In the distance, there is a pinnacle, which the newly-awakened rice-seedlings who are still stuck in the ground can see. Could it be the Promised Land? Koohii #2 When sailors see land in the distance, they first see the pinnacles of the new land, but when they come close enough they´ll be able to make out the rice seedlings, and finally the ground! Primitives land, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, mini-tractor, rice seedlings, soil, dirt, ground, human legs, soil2, dirt2, ground2 上陸(じょうりく): landing, disembarkation 着陸(ちゃくりく): landing, alighting, touch down 内陸(ないりく): inland 大陸(たいりく): continent 陸(りく): land, shore Kunyomi: おか Onyomi: リク、ロク Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"land 陸 画数11 1631 Details Story Dictionary 陸 land Heisig's The sense of land carried by this kanji is distinct from soil (Frame 161) and ground (Frame 554) in that it is meant to represent land seen from a distance, that is, land as opposed to ""water."" Its elements: pinnacle . . . rice seedlings . . . ground. Koohii #1 My rice-seedlings have become sentient and will go on a mission. I can only apologise for the next 6 frames. In the distance, there is a pinnacle, which the newly-awakened rice-seedlings who are still stuck in the ground can see. Could it be the Promised Land? Koohii #2 When sailors see land in the distance, they first see the pinnacles of the new land, but when they come close enough they´ll be able to make out the rice seedlings, and finally the ground! Primitives land, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, mini-tractor, rice seedlings, soil, dirt, ground, human legs, soil2, dirt2, ground2 上陸(じょうりく): landing, disembarkation 着陸(ちゃくりく): landing, alighting, touch down 内陸(ないりく): inland 大陸(たいりく): continent 陸(りく): land, shore Kunyomi: おか Onyomi: リク、ロク Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
intimate Details Story Dictionary 睦 intimate Heisig's Eye . . . rice seedlings . . . ground. Koohii #1 The farmer was never very intimate with his wife. He always kept his eye on his precious rice seedlings in the soil. Koohii #2 I keep an intimate relationship with my rice seedlings -- I never take my eye from the soil. Primitives intimate, eye, mini-tractor, rice seedlings, soil, dirt, ground, human legs, soil2, dirt2, ground2 Kunyomi: むつ.まじい、むつ.む、むつ.ぶ Onyomi: ボク、モク Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	intimate 睦 画数13 1632 Details Story Dictionary 睦 intimate Heisig's Eye . . . rice seedlings . . . ground. Koohii #1 The farmer was never very intimate with his wife. He always kept his eye on his precious rice seedlings in the soil. Koohii #2 I keep an intimate relationship with my rice seedlings -- I never take my eye from the soil. Primitives intimate, eye, mini-tractor, rice seedlings, soil, dirt, ground, human legs, soil2, dirt2, ground2 Kunyomi: むつ.まじい、むつ.む、むつ.ぶ Onyomi: ボク、モク Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
forces Details Story Dictionary 勢 forces Heisig's Rice seedlings . . ground . . . fat man . . . muscle. Koohii #1 What power makes rice seedlings in the ground grow into well rounded plants? The forces of nature. Koohii #2 The forces of nature need to be just right for the rice seedlings in the ground to become fat and strong. Primitives forces, mini-tractor, rice seedlings, soil, dirt, ground, human legs, fat man, musashimaru, round, nine, baseball, drop, power, muscle, arnold, soil2, dirt2, ground2 形勢(けいせい): condition, situation, prospects 情勢(じょうせい): state of things, condition, situation 勢力(せいりょく): influence, power, might, strength, potency, force, energy 態勢(たいせい): attitude, conditions, preparations 優勢(ゆうせい): superiority, superior power, predominance, preponderance 勢い(いきおい): force, vigor, energy, spirit, life, authority, influence, power, might, tendency, necessarily 姿勢(しせい): attitude, posture 大勢(おおぜい): many, a great number (of people) Kunyomi: いきお.い、はずみ Onyomi: セイ、ゼイ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 勢い (いきお.い)	forces 勢 画数13 1633 Details Story Dictionary 勢 forces Heisig's Rice seedlings . . ground . . . fat man . . . muscle. Koohii #1 What power makes rice seedlings in the ground grow into well rounded plants? The forces of nature. Koohii #2 The forces of nature need to be just right for the rice seedlings in the ground to become fat and strong. Primitives forces, mini-tractor, rice seedlings, soil, dirt, ground, human legs, fat man, musashimaru, round, nine, baseball, drop, power, muscle, arnold, soil2, dirt2, ground2 形勢(けいせい): condition, situation, prospects 情勢(じょうせい): state of things, condition, situation 勢力(せいりょく): influence, power, might, strength, potency, force, energy 態勢(たいせい): attitude, conditions, preparations 優勢(ゆうせい): superiority, superior power, predominance, preponderance 勢い(いきおい): force, vigor, energy, spirit, life, authority, influence, power, might, tendency, necessarily 姿勢(しせい): attitude, posture 大勢(おおぜい): many, a great number (of people) Kunyomi: いきお.い、はずみ Onyomi: セイ、ゼイ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 勢い (いきお.い)
"heat / fever Details Story Dictionary 熱 heat / fever My Story [termite pie + round {丸} + fire] Koohii #1 Heat up those RICE SEEDLINGS you pulled from the SOIL in a ROUND pan over a low FLAME. (Note: the hot pan image helps reinforce the idea that this kanji for ""atsui"" refers to something hot to the touch, as opposed to hot weather). Koohii #2 Just a comment on Erikkusan's story: Although one of the pronunciations of this kanji is ""atsui"" this isn't the atsui that you feel in Tokyo in August, (which is Frame 1260's ""sultry' 暑). This atsui is the one when you touch something hot, like a fry pan. Another reading of this is ""netsu,"" which is the ""fever"" this fat man may feel after planting the rice seedlings. Primitives heat, mini-tractor, rice seedlings, soil, dirt, ground, human legs, fat man, musashimaru, round, nine, baseball, drop, oven-fire, barbecue, soil2, dirt2, ground2 光熱費(こうねつひ): cost of fuel and light 情熱(じょうねつ): passion, enthusiasm, zeal 熱意(ねつい): zeal, enthusiasm 熱湯(ねっとう): boiling water 熱量(ねつりょう): temperature 加熱(かねつ): heating 熱する(ねっする): to heat 熱帯(ねったい): tropics 熱中(ねっちゅう): enthusiasm, zeal, mania 熱(ねつ): heat, fever 熱心(ねっしん): eagerness 熱い(あつい): hot (thing) Kunyomi: あつ.い Onyomi: ネツ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 熱い (あつ.い)"	"heat / fever 熱 画数15 1634 Details Story Dictionary 熱 heat / fever My Story [termite pie + round {丸} + fire] Koohii #1 Heat up those RICE SEEDLINGS you pulled from the SOIL in a ROUND pan over a low FLAME. (Note: the hot pan image helps reinforce the idea that this kanji for ""atsui"" refers to something hot to the touch, as opposed to hot weather). Koohii #2 Just a comment on Erikkusan's story: Although one of the pronunciations of this kanji is ""atsui"" this isn't the atsui that you feel in Tokyo in August, (which is Frame 1260's ""sultry' 暑). This atsui is the one when you touch something hot, like a fry pan. Another reading of this is ""netsu,"" which is the ""fever"" this fat man may feel after planting the rice seedlings. Primitives heat, mini-tractor, rice seedlings, soil, dirt, ground, human legs, fat man, musashimaru, round, nine, baseball, drop, oven-fire, barbecue, soil2, dirt2, ground2 光熱費(こうねつひ): cost of fuel and light 情熱(じょうねつ): passion, enthusiasm, zeal 熱意(ねつい): zeal, enthusiasm 熱湯(ねっとう): boiling water 熱量(ねつりょう): temperature 加熱(かねつ): heating 熱する(ねっする): to heat 熱帯(ねったい): tropics 熱中(ねっちゅう): enthusiasm, zeal, mania 熱(ねつ): heat, fever 熱心(ねっしん): eagerness 熱い(あつい): hot (thing) Kunyomi: あつ.い Onyomi: ネツ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 熱い (あつ.い)"
diamond Details Story Dictionary 菱 diamond Heisig's Named after a diamond-shaped flower (the water caltrop), this key word refers to things shaped like a diamond. Its elements: flower . . . rice seedlings . . . walking legs. Koohii #1 Some girls want diamonds, but others will be satisfied with just flowers. However if you think you can win her over with rice seedlings, expect her to get up on her walking legs and walk on out! Koohii #2 Not a real diamond but a baseball one. No proper bases so we improvise, 1st is a bunch of flowers, 2nd is the pile of rice seedlings and so on... watch the running legs charge around after a big hit! Primitives diamond, flowers, Mao, soil, dirt, ground, human legs, walking legs Kunyomi: ひし Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:	diamond 菱 画数11 1635 Details Story Dictionary 菱 diamond Heisig's Named after a diamond-shaped flower (the water caltrop), this key word refers to things shaped like a diamond. Its elements: flower . . . rice seedlings . . . walking legs. Koohii #1 Some girls want diamonds, but others will be satisfied with just flowers. However if you think you can win her over with rice seedlings, expect her to get up on her walking legs and walk on out! Koohii #2 Not a real diamond but a baseball one. No proper bases so we improvise, 1st is a bunch of flowers, 2nd is the pile of rice seedlings and so on... watch the running legs charge around after a big hit! Primitives diamond, flowers, Mao, soil, dirt, ground, human legs, walking legs Kunyomi: ひし Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:
"mausoleum Details Story Dictionary 陵 mausoleum Heisig's Pinnacle . . . rice seedlings . . . walking legs. Koohii #1 Ancient Japanese built a mausoleum for the ""unknown rice farmer"". It's on the pinnacle of Mt. Fuji, and it has a statue of a guy with huge walking legs planting rice seedlings as he goes. Koohii #2 At the pinnicle is a mausolem. The ground is sown with rice seedings to stop the dead from rising on walking legs. Primitives mausoleum, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, Mao, soil, dirt, ground, human legs, walking legs 丘陵(きゅうりょう): hill Kunyomi: みささぎ Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 陵 (みささぎ)"	"mausoleum 陵 画数11 1636 Details Story Dictionary 陵 mausoleum Heisig's Pinnacle . . . rice seedlings . . . walking legs. Koohii #1 Ancient Japanese built a mausoleum for the ""unknown rice farmer"". It's on the pinnacle of Mt. Fuji, and it has a statue of a guy with huge walking legs planting rice seedlings as he goes. Koohii #2 At the pinnicle is a mausolem. The ground is sown with rice seedings to stop the dead from rising on walking legs. Primitives mausoleum, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, Mao, soil, dirt, ground, human legs, walking legs 丘陵(きゅうりょう): hill Kunyomi: みささぎ Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 陵 (みささぎ)"
sign of the hog Details Story Dictionary 亥 sign of the hog Heisig's This kanji is the 12th sign of the Chinese zodiac: the sign of the hog. It is best learned by thinking of an acorn-eating hog in connection with the primitive meaning given below. * The top hat represents the external shape of the acorn, and the unusual but easily written complex of strokes beneath it (which you might also see as distortions of an elbow and person) stands for the mysterious secret whereby the acorn contains the oak tree in a nutshell. Koohii #1 A greedy hog in a top hat who has eaten all of the acorns. He even elbows people out of the way to get them. Koohii #2 Top Hat + Elbow + Person: The sign of the hog was a very recognizable tattoo - a hog with a big grin in a top hat, sticking his elbow into the person next to him. Primitives sign of the hog, acorn, top hat Kunyomi: い Onyomi: ガイ、カイ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	sign of the hog 亥 画数6 1637 Details Story Dictionary 亥 sign of the hog Heisig's This kanji is the 12th sign of the Chinese zodiac: the sign of the hog. It is best learned by thinking of an acorn-eating hog in connection with the primitive meaning given below. * The top hat represents the external shape of the acorn, and the unusual but easily written complex of strokes beneath it (which you might also see as distortions of an elbow and person) stands for the mysterious secret whereby the acorn contains the oak tree in a nutshell. Koohii #1 A greedy hog in a top hat who has eaten all of the acorns. He even elbows people out of the way to get them. Koohii #2 Top Hat + Elbow + Person: The sign of the hog was a very recognizable tattoo - a hog with a big grin in a top hat, sticking his elbow into the person next to him. Primitives sign of the hog, acorn, top hat Kunyomi: い Onyomi: ガイ、カイ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
nucleus Details Story Dictionary 核 nucleus Heisig's Tree . . . acorn. Koohii #1 In the nucleus of the acorn, all the DNA is stored -- the building blocks for a new tree. Koohii #2 The nucleus of an oak TREE is an ACORN. Primitives nucleus, tree, wood, sign of the hog, acorn, top hat 核(かく): nucleus, kernel 結核(けっかく): tuberculosis, tubercule Kunyomi: Onyomi: カク Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	nucleus 核 画数10 1638 Details Story Dictionary 核 nucleus Heisig's Tree . . . acorn. Koohii #1 In the nucleus of the acorn, all the DNA is stored -- the building blocks for a new tree. Koohii #2 The nucleus of an oak TREE is an ACORN. Primitives nucleus, tree, wood, sign of the hog, acorn, top hat 核(かく): nucleus, kernel 結核(けっかく): tuberculosis, tubercule Kunyomi: Onyomi: カク Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
engrave Details Story Dictionary 刻 engrave Heisig's Acorn . . . saber. Koohii #1 This famous ninja (I always use ninjas with sabres, distinct from samurai) used to engrave the kanji for his name onto acorns, and throw the acorns to distract his enemies. The legend goes that by the time his victims would pick up the acorn and read the engraved kanji, they were already dead. Koohii #2 While it´s traditional for lovers to engrave their names on a tree in many countries, in Japan, however, it was traditional for a samurai to signify his undying love for a woman by engraving the kanji of her name on an acorn with his sabre. Primitives engrave, sign of the hog, acorn, top hat, sword, sabre, saber 時刻表(じこくひょう): table, diagram, chart, timetable, schedule 刻む(きざむ): mince, chop up, carve, engrave, cut fine, hash, chisel, notch 時刻(じこく): instant, time, moment 深刻(しんこく): serious 遅刻(ちこく): lateness, late coming 彫刻(ちょうこく): carving, engraving, sculpture Kunyomi: きざ.む、きざ.み Onyomi: コク Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 刻む (きざ.む)	engrave 刻 画数8 1639 Details Story Dictionary 刻 engrave Heisig's Acorn . . . saber. Koohii #1 This famous ninja (I always use ninjas with sabres, distinct from samurai) used to engrave the kanji for his name onto acorns, and throw the acorns to distract his enemies. The legend goes that by the time his victims would pick up the acorn and read the engraved kanji, they were already dead. Koohii #2 While it´s traditional for lovers to engrave their names on a tree in many countries, in Japan, however, it was traditional for a samurai to signify his undying love for a woman by engraving the kanji of her name on an acorn with his sabre. Primitives engrave, sign of the hog, acorn, top hat, sword, sabre, saber 時刻表(じこくひょう): table, diagram, chart, timetable, schedule 刻む(きざむ): mince, chop up, carve, engrave, cut fine, hash, chisel, notch 時刻(じこく): instant, time, moment 深刻(しんこく): serious 遅刻(ちこく): lateness, late coming 彫刻(ちょうこく): carving, engraving, sculpture Kunyomi: きざ.む、きざ.み Onyomi: コク Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 刻む (きざ.む)
above-stated Details Story Dictionary 該 above-stated Heisig's Words . . . acorn. Koohii #1 I asked my teacher what this strange word meant, and she furiously replied that it was explained in the above-stated paragraph before throwing an acorn at me! Koohii #2 The above-stated words are the acorn from which the following statement grows. Primitives above-stated, say, words, keitai, mouth, sign of the hog, acorn, top hat 該当(がいとう): corresponding, answering to, coming under Kunyomi: Onyomi: ガイ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	above-stated 該 画数13 1640 Details Story Dictionary 該 above-stated Heisig's Words . . . acorn. Koohii #1 I asked my teacher what this strange word meant, and she furiously replied that it was explained in the above-stated paragraph before throwing an acorn at me! Koohii #2 The above-stated words are the acorn from which the following statement grows. Primitives above-stated, say, words, keitai, mouth, sign of the hog, acorn, top hat 該当(がいとう): corresponding, answering to, coming under Kunyomi: Onyomi: ガイ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
remains Details Story Dictionary 骸 remains Heisig's Skeleton . . . acorn. Koohii #1 The remains consisted of a skeleton which had the remains of some acorns in its stomach area. Whether it died from eating the acorns remains to be seen. Koohii #2 Hint: The remains of a chipmunk. Primitives remains, skeleton, joint, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sign of the hog, acorn, top hat Kunyomi: むくろ Onyomi: ガイ、カイ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	remains 骸 画数16 1641 Details Story Dictionary 骸 remains Heisig's Skeleton . . . acorn. Koohii #1 The remains consisted of a skeleton which had the remains of some acorns in its stomach area. Whether it died from eating the acorns remains to be seen. Koohii #2 Hint: The remains of a chipmunk. Primitives remains, skeleton, joint, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sign of the hog, acorn, top hat Kunyomi: むくろ Onyomi: ガイ、カイ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
"censure Details Story Dictionary 劾 censure Heisig's Acorn . . . muscle. Koohii #1 Censure is the political equivalent of a ""strongly worded letter,"" according to Cornell's School of Law. It is a flex of muscle by congress against the current president, but it is a very weak one. Imagine censure as congress flexing as hard as it can, only to have a little acorn-sized bump of muscle pop up suddenly. Koohii #2 Acorn Power is the people´s way to CENSURE a congressman you don´t agree with. Pelt your Senator with acorns today. Primitives censure, sign of the hog, acorn, top hat, power, muscle, arnold Kunyomi: Onyomi: ガイ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"censure 劾 画数8 1642 Details Story Dictionary 劾 censure Heisig's Acorn . . . muscle. Koohii #1 Censure is the political equivalent of a ""strongly worded letter,"" according to Cornell's School of Law. It is a flex of muscle by congress against the current president, but it is a very weak one. Imagine censure as congress flexing as hard as it can, only to have a little acorn-sized bump of muscle pop up suddenly. Koohii #2 Acorn Power is the people´s way to CENSURE a congressman you don´t agree with. Pelt your Senator with acorns today. Primitives censure, sign of the hog, acorn, top hat, power, muscle, arnold Kunyomi: Onyomi: ガイ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
mention Details Story Dictionary 述 mention Heisig's Resin . . . road. Koohii #1 Why are the roads leading through the woods so sticky and dirty? Hmm... I think the forest ranger mentioned something about excess resin on the roads... Koohii #2 No-body mentioned that there was resin on the road. Now I´m stuck! Primitives mention, resin, pole, road 記述(きじゅつ): describing, descriptor 口述(こうじゅつ): verbal statement 述語(じゅつご): predicate 述べる(のべる): state, express, mention Kunyomi: の.べる Onyomi: ジュツ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 述べる (の.べる)	mention 述 画数8 1643 Details Story Dictionary 述 mention Heisig's Resin . . . road. Koohii #1 Why are the roads leading through the woods so sticky and dirty? Hmm... I think the forest ranger mentioned something about excess resin on the roads... Koohii #2 No-body mentioned that there was resin on the road. Now I´m stuck! Primitives mention, resin, pole, road 記述(きじゅつ): describing, descriptor 口述(こうじゅつ): verbal statement 述語(じゅつご): predicate 述べる(のべる): state, express, mention Kunyomi: の.べる Onyomi: ジュツ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 述べる (の.べる)
"art Details Story Dictionary 術 art My Story *Go*ing to art shows is *ホ*'rrible Don't *go* watch this *ホ*'rrible art! A person who can make sandwich of the kanji {行} and the katakana ホ truly knows art. Koohii #1 Behold the ""Boulev´Art"" : a life-size section of a boulevard cast in a huge block of resin. Some call it ... art. Koohii #2 The definition of art is getting more and more loose these days. Why even some resin spilled onto the boulevard is now counted as art! Hmmph! Primitives art, boulevard, going, resin, pole 戦術(せんじゅつ): tactics 美術(びじゅつ): art, fine arts 学術(がくじゅつ): science, learning, scholarship 芸術(げいじゅつ): fine art, the arts 手術(しゅじゅつ): surgical operation 技術(ぎじゅつ): technique 美術館(びじゅつかん): art gallery Kunyomi: すべ Onyomi: ジュツ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"art 術 画数11 1644 Details Story Dictionary 術 art My Story *Go*ing to art shows is *ホ*'rrible Don't *go* watch this *ホ*'rrible art! A person who can make sandwich of the kanji {行} and the katakana ホ truly knows art. Koohii #1 Behold the ""Boulev´Art"" : a life-size section of a boulevard cast in a huge block of resin. Some call it ... art. Koohii #2 The definition of art is getting more and more loose these days. Why even some resin spilled onto the boulevard is now counted as art! Hmmph! Primitives art, boulevard, going, resin, pole 戦術(せんじゅつ): tactics 美術(びじゅつ): art, fine arts 学術(がくじゅつ): science, learning, scholarship 芸術(げいじゅつ): fine art, the arts 手術(しゅじゅつ): surgical operation 技術(ぎじゅつ): technique 美術館(びじゅつかん): art gallery Kunyomi: すべ Onyomi: ジュツ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
cold Details Story Dictionary 寒 cold My Story [Crow + 3-legged fence + legs + 2 dots ] Koohii #1 Don't mix up with cool (#1404), when the cool boys order each other around. This kind of cold has to do with weather. When its cold outside, I stay at home and have hot celery soup with chicken legs to keep out the ice. 寒い　＝　さむい　＝cold. Koohii #2 Some strange animal tried to steal a stalk of celery from my house. However, it was freezing and the floor was covered in ice, so the mysterious animal couldn´t get any traction. Picture a stalk of celery and a pair of animal legs slipping and sliding clumsily around the ice, and never able to leave the house. Eventually it got so cold that the little animal froze to death. Primitives cold, Baba Yaga’s hut, house, celery, animal legs, ice 寒気(かんき): cold, frost, chill 寒帯(かんたい): frigid zone 寒い(さむい): cold (e.g. weather) Kunyomi: さむ.い Onyomi: カン Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 寒い (さむ.い)	cold 寒 画数12 1645 Details Story Dictionary 寒 cold My Story [Crow + 3-legged fence + legs + 2 dots ] Koohii #1 Don't mix up with cool (#1404), when the cool boys order each other around. This kind of cold has to do with weather. When its cold outside, I stay at home and have hot celery soup with chicken legs to keep out the ice. 寒い　＝　さむい　＝cold. Koohii #2 Some strange animal tried to steal a stalk of celery from my house. However, it was freezing and the floor was covered in ice, so the mysterious animal couldn´t get any traction. Picture a stalk of celery and a pair of animal legs slipping and sliding clumsily around the ice, and never able to leave the house. Eventually it got so cold that the little animal froze to death. Primitives cold, Baba Yaga’s hut, house, celery, animal legs, ice 寒気(かんき): cold, frost, chill 寒帯(かんたい): frigid zone 寒い(さむい): cold (e.g. weather) Kunyomi: さむ.い Onyomi: カン Lesson: 39 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 寒い (さむ.い)
block up Details Story Dictionary 塞 block up Heisig's House . . . celery . . . animal legs . . . soil. Koohii #1 The A/C wasn´t making the house cold because the filters had been blocked up with dirt. Koohii #2 It was so cold (#1526), the pipes blocked up with ice. After removing the ice, we insulated them with soil. Primitives block up, Baba Yaga’s hut, house, celery, animal legs, soil, dirt, ground 塞がる(ふさがる): be plugged up, be shut up 塞ぐ(ふさぐ): stop up, close up, block (up), occupy, fill up, take up, stand in another´s way, plug up, shut up Kunyomi: ふさ.ぐ、とりで、み.ちる Onyomi: ソク、サイ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 塞がる (ふさ.がる), 塞ぐ (ふさ.ぐ)	block up 塞 画数13 1646 Details Story Dictionary 塞 block up Heisig's House . . . celery . . . animal legs . . . soil. Koohii #1 The A/C wasn´t making the house cold because the filters had been blocked up with dirt. Koohii #2 It was so cold (#1526), the pipes blocked up with ice. After removing the ice, we insulated them with soil. Primitives block up, Baba Yaga’s hut, house, celery, animal legs, soil, dirt, ground 塞がる(ふさがる): be plugged up, be shut up 塞ぐ(ふさぐ): stop up, close up, block (up), occupy, fill up, take up, stand in another´s way, plug up, shut up Kunyomi: ふさ.ぐ、とりで、み.ちる Onyomi: ソク、サイ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 塞がる (ふさ.がる), 塞ぐ (ふさ.ぐ)
"brew Details Story Dictionary 醸 brew Heisig's Whiskey bottle . . . grass skirt. Koohii #1 Grass Skirt primitive: Picture some Hawaiian girls, wearing grass skirts and tropical scarfs (or leis), doing a dance. ""3, 4, 5, 6 pick up all the celery sticks!"". Koohii #2 A classic alcohol commercial: whiskey being brewed while girls dance around, scantily clad in their grass skirts. Primitives brew, whiskey bottle, grass skirt, top hat, eight, six, animal legs, celery, scarf Kunyomi: かも.す Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 醸す (かも.す)"	"brew 醸 画数20 1647 Details Story Dictionary 醸 brew Heisig's Whiskey bottle . . . grass skirt. Koohii #1 Grass Skirt primitive: Picture some Hawaiian girls, wearing grass skirts and tropical scarfs (or leis), doing a dance. ""3, 4, 5, 6 pick up all the celery sticks!"". Koohii #2 A classic alcohol commercial: whiskey being brewed while girls dance around, scantily clad in their grass skirts. Primitives brew, whiskey bottle, grass skirt, top hat, eight, six, animal legs, celery, scarf Kunyomi: かも.す Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 醸す (かも.す)"
"defer Details Story Dictionary 譲 defer Heisig's Words . . . grass skirt. Koohii #1 Speaking complicated words to set her head spinning, the island girl in the grass skirt says demurely ""I defer (yield) to your judgment, wise one"". Koohii #2 I talked to my Japanese spouse, who confirmed that this kanji does not mean ""defer"" as in ""put off, delay"". It means ""defer"" in the sense of ""submit"" or ""yield"". Primitives defer, say, words, keitai, mouth, grass skirt, top hat, eight, six, animal legs, celery, scarf 譲歩(じょうほ): concession, conciliation, compromise 譲る(ゆずる): turn over, assign, hand over, transmit, convey, sell, dispose of, yield, surrender Kunyomi: ゆず.る Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 譲る (ゆず.る)"	"defer 譲 画数20 1648 Details Story Dictionary 譲 defer Heisig's Words . . . grass skirt. Koohii #1 Speaking complicated words to set her head spinning, the island girl in the grass skirt says demurely ""I defer (yield) to your judgment, wise one"". Koohii #2 I talked to my Japanese spouse, who confirmed that this kanji does not mean ""defer"" as in ""put off, delay"". It means ""defer"" in the sense of ""submit"" or ""yield"". Primitives defer, say, words, keitai, mouth, grass skirt, top hat, eight, six, animal legs, celery, scarf 譲歩(じょうほ): concession, conciliation, compromise 譲る(ゆずる): turn over, assign, hand over, transmit, convey, sell, dispose of, yield, surrender Kunyomi: ゆず.る Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 譲る (ゆず.る)"
lot Details Story Dictionary 壌 lot Heisig's Ground . . . grass skirt. The lot of this key word refers to a portion of land. Koohii #1 My dream is to buy a small lot on a tropical island and spend the rest of my days relaxing in a grass skirt. Koohii #2 On the island of JOU, in order to be considered a lot, a ground must be big enough to grow sufficient grass for a grass skirt. Primitives lot, soil, dirt, ground, grass skirt, top hat, eight, six, animal legs, celery, scarf Kunyomi: つち Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	lot 壌 画数16 1649 Details Story Dictionary 壌 lot Heisig's Ground . . . grass skirt. The lot of this key word refers to a portion of land. Koohii #1 My dream is to buy a small lot on a tropical island and spend the rest of my days relaxing in a grass skirt. Koohii #2 On the island of JOU, in order to be considered a lot, a ground must be big enough to grow sufficient grass for a grass skirt. Primitives lot, soil, dirt, ground, grass skirt, top hat, eight, six, animal legs, celery, scarf Kunyomi: つち Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"lass Details Story Dictionary 嬢 lass Heisig's Woman . . . grass skirt. Koohii #1 Conversation at a party: A: ""Who is that lass?"" B: ""Which one?"" A: ""The woman wearing the grass skirt."" B: ""Alas, I don´t know"". Koohii #2 Two Irishmen visit Hawaii and see a woman wearing a grass skirt and nothing else. ""That´s some lassie,"" says one to the other. ""But alass Danny Boy, you can´t be bringing her home."". Primitives lass, woman, grass skirt, top hat, eight, six, animal legs, celery, scarf 嬢(じょう): young woman お嬢さん(おじょうさん): daughter (polite) Kunyomi: むすめ Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"lass 嬢 画数16 1650 Details Story Dictionary 嬢 lass Heisig's Woman . . . grass skirt. Koohii #1 Conversation at a party: A: ""Who is that lass?"" B: ""Which one?"" A: ""The woman wearing the grass skirt."" B: ""Alas, I don´t know"". Koohii #2 Two Irishmen visit Hawaii and see a woman wearing a grass skirt and nothing else. ""That´s some lassie,"" says one to the other. ""But alass Danny Boy, you can´t be bringing her home."". Primitives lass, woman, grass skirt, top hat, eight, six, animal legs, celery, scarf 嬢(じょう): young woman お嬢さん(おじょうさん): daughter (polite) Kunyomi: むすめ Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 39 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"poison Details Story Dictionary 毒 poison Heisig's Grow up . . . breasts. Koohii #1 If you grow up with a mother that drinks and smokes, you can be sure it´s poison in the stuff you get from her breasts. Koohii #2 You can use silicone implants to to make your breasts ""grow up"" but if they leak, it's poison. Primitives poison, grow up, mother, breasts 中毒(ちゅうどく): poisoning 気の毒(きのどく): pitiful, a pity 消毒(しょうどく): disinfection, sterilization 毒(どく): poison Kunyomi: Onyomi: ドク Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"poison 毒 画数8 1651 Details Story Dictionary 毒 poison Heisig's Grow up . . . breasts. Koohii #1 If you grow up with a mother that drinks and smokes, you can be sure it´s poison in the stuff you get from her breasts. Koohii #2 You can use silicone implants to to make your breasts ""grow up"" but if they leak, it's poison. Primitives poison, grow up, mother, breasts 中毒(ちゅうどく): poisoning 気の毒(きのどく): pitiful, a pity 消毒(しょうどく): disinfection, sterilization 毒(どく): poison Kunyomi: Onyomi: ドク Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
elementary Details Story Dictionary 素 elementary My Story [Master {主} + String] The *Master* killed his wife a *string*, elementary my dear Watson Koohii #1 This kanji has nothing to do with elementary school - it means element, elemental, basic, bare. Imagine the thread as a thread connecting all life, starting from the basic elements and growing up into everything. Koohii #2 This is a pictogram of string theory. Strings are the most elementary particles of matter, which then grow up to become matter itself. Primitives elementary, grow up, thread, spiderman 簡素(かんそ): simplicity, plain 元素(げんそ): chemical element 酸素(さんそ): oxygen 質素(しっそ): simplicity, modesty, frugality 素敵(すてき): lovely, dreamy, beautiful, great, fantastic, superb, cool, capital 素早い(すばやい): fast, quick, prompt, agile 素晴らしい(すばらしい): wonderful, splendid, magnificent 素材(そざい): raw materials, subject matter 素っ気ない(そっけない): cold, short, curt, blunt 素朴(そぼく): simplicity, artlessness, naivete 炭素(たんそ): carbon (C) 素人(しろうと): amateur, novice 水素(すいそ): hydrogen 素直(すなお): obedient, meek, docile, unaffected 素質(そしつ): character, qualities, genius 要素(ようそ): element Kunyomi: もと Onyomi: ソ、ス Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 素材 (そざい), 元素 (げんそ), 平素 (へいそ)	elementary 素 画数10 1652 Details Story Dictionary 素 elementary My Story [Master {主} + String] The *Master* killed his wife a *string*, elementary my dear Watson Koohii #1 This kanji has nothing to do with elementary school - it means element, elemental, basic, bare. Imagine the thread as a thread connecting all life, starting from the basic elements and growing up into everything. Koohii #2 This is a pictogram of string theory. Strings are the most elementary particles of matter, which then grow up to become matter itself. Primitives elementary, grow up, thread, spiderman 簡素(かんそ): simplicity, plain 元素(げんそ): chemical element 酸素(さんそ): oxygen 質素(しっそ): simplicity, modesty, frugality 素敵(すてき): lovely, dreamy, beautiful, great, fantastic, superb, cool, capital 素早い(すばやい): fast, quick, prompt, agile 素晴らしい(すばらしい): wonderful, splendid, magnificent 素材(そざい): raw materials, subject matter 素っ気ない(そっけない): cold, short, curt, blunt 素朴(そぼく): simplicity, artlessness, naivete 炭素(たんそ): carbon (C) 素人(しろうと): amateur, novice 水素(すいそ): hydrogen 素直(すなお): obedient, meek, docile, unaffected 素質(そしつ): character, qualities, genius 要素(ようそ): element Kunyomi: もと Onyomi: ソ、ス Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 素材 (そざい), 元素 (げんそ), 平素 (へいそ)
"barley Details Story Dictionary 麦 barley My Story [master {主} + each {各} ] The *master* used *each* and every piece of barley for the beer Koohii #1 BARLEY beverages give GROWN UPs teetering WALKING LEGS. Koohii #2 ""Grown up"" barley, i.e. beer, is what gets you tottering legs. Primitives barley, grow up, walking legs 小麦(こむぎ): wheat 蕎麦(そば): soba (buckwheat noodles) Kunyomi: むぎ Onyomi: バク Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 麦 (むぎ)"	"barley 麦 画数7 1653 Details Story Dictionary 麦 barley My Story [master {主} + each {各} ] The *master* used *each* and every piece of barley for the beer Koohii #1 BARLEY beverages give GROWN UPs teetering WALKING LEGS. Koohii #2 ""Grown up"" barley, i.e. beer, is what gets you tottering legs. Primitives barley, grow up, walking legs 小麦(こむぎ): wheat 蕎麦(そば): soba (buckwheat noodles) Kunyomi: むぎ Onyomi: バク Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 麦 (むぎ)"
"blue Details Story Dictionary 青 blue Heisig's Grow up . . . moon. Koohii #1 The last time I saw a blue moon was in my youth when I was growing up. Koohii #2 Once in a blue moon refers to a rare event. But originally ""blue moon"" refers to a full moon, in other words a fully grown-up moon. Whether once a month is rare or not depends on what we´re talking about, but that happens to be the origin of the expression. Primitives blue, grow up, moon, flesh 青白い(あおじろい): pale 青春(せいしゅん): youth, springtime of life, adolescent 青(あお): the color blue, the color green (noun), green light 青少年(せいしょうねん): youth, young person 青年(せいねん): youth, young man 真っ青(まっさお): deep blue, ghastly pale 青い(あおい): blue, pale, green, unripe, inexperienced Kunyomi: あお、あお-、あお.い Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 青天 (せいてん), 青銅 (せいどう), 青年 (せいねん), 青 (あお), 青い (あお.い)"	"blue 青 画数8 1654 Details Story Dictionary 青 blue Heisig's Grow up . . . moon. Koohii #1 The last time I saw a blue moon was in my youth when I was growing up. Koohii #2 Once in a blue moon refers to a rare event. But originally ""blue moon"" refers to a full moon, in other words a fully grown-up moon. Whether once a month is rare or not depends on what we´re talking about, but that happens to be the origin of the expression. Primitives blue, grow up, moon, flesh 青白い(あおじろい): pale 青春(せいしゅん): youth, springtime of life, adolescent 青(あお): the color blue, the color green (noun), green light 青少年(せいしょうねん): youth, young person 青年(せいねん): youth, young man 真っ青(まっさお): deep blue, ghastly pale 青い(あおい): blue, pale, green, unripe, inexperienced Kunyomi: あお、あお-、あお.い Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 青天 (せいてん), 青銅 (せいどう), 青年 (せいねん), 青 (あお), 青い (あお.い)"
"refined Details Story Dictionary 精 refined Heisig's Rice . . . blue. Koohii #1 Very refined people in the upper classes have skin as pale as rice and blue blood. Koohii #2 ""Uh, why is your rice blue?"" ""It's been refined! And by 'refined' I mean it's been in the back of my fridge for a few months."". Primitives refined, rice, blue, grow up, moon, flesh 精巧(せいこう): elaborate, delicate, exquisite 精密(せいみつ): precise, exact, detailed, minute, close 精神(せいしん): mind, soul, heart, spirit, intention 精々(せいぜい): at the most, at best, to the utmost, as much (far) as possible Kunyomi: Onyomi: セイ、ショウ、シヤウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 精米 (せいまい), 精密 (せいみつ), 精力 (せいりょく)"	"refined 精 画数14 1655 Details Story Dictionary 精 refined Heisig's Rice . . . blue. Koohii #1 Very refined people in the upper classes have skin as pale as rice and blue blood. Koohii #2 ""Uh, why is your rice blue?"" ""It's been refined! And by 'refined' I mean it's been in the back of my fridge for a few months."". Primitives refined, rice, blue, grow up, moon, flesh 精巧(せいこう): elaborate, delicate, exquisite 精密(せいみつ): precise, exact, detailed, minute, close 精神(せいしん): mind, soul, heart, spirit, intention 精々(せいぜい): at the most, at best, to the utmost, as much (far) as possible Kunyomi: Onyomi: セイ、ショウ、シヤウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 精米 (せいまい), 精密 (せいみつ), 精力 (せいりょく)"
"solicit Details Story Dictionary 請 solicit Heisig's Words . . . blue. Koohii #1 People who try to solicit you to buy things come up to you and just start taking out of the blue Koohii #2 That door-to-door salesman can stand outside ringing my doorbell until he´s blue in the face. There´s a big sign on my front door, and the words clearly say ""No Soliciting"". Primitives solicit, say, words, keitai, mouth, blue, grow up, moon, flesh 強請る(ねだる): to tease, to coax, to solicit, to demand 要請(ようせい): claim, demand, request, application 申請(しんせい): application, request, petition 請求(せいきゅう): claim, demand, application, request Kunyomi: こ.う、う.ける Onyomi: セイ、シン、ショウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 請求 (せいきゅう), 請願 (せいがん), 申請 (しんせい), 請ける (う.ける), 請う (こ.う)"	"solicit 請 画数15 1656 Details Story Dictionary 請 solicit Heisig's Words . . . blue. Koohii #1 People who try to solicit you to buy things come up to you and just start taking out of the blue Koohii #2 That door-to-door salesman can stand outside ringing my doorbell until he´s blue in the face. There´s a big sign on my front door, and the words clearly say ""No Soliciting"". Primitives solicit, say, words, keitai, mouth, blue, grow up, moon, flesh 強請る(ねだる): to tease, to coax, to solicit, to demand 要請(ようせい): claim, demand, request, application 申請(しんせい): application, request, petition 請求(せいきゅう): claim, demand, application, request Kunyomi: こ.う、う.ける Onyomi: セイ、シン、ショウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 請求 (せいきゅう), 請願 (せいがん), 申請 (しんせい), 請ける (う.ける), 請う (こ.う)"
feelings Details Story Dictionary 情 feelings My Story Q: What emotion are you feeling ? A: My *heart* is *blue* ever since JOE Stalin left me. Feeling blue is a state of mind where you're dominated by your feelings . Koohii #1 Data is feeling blue about not having any feelings ... hey, wait a minute. Koohii #2 Feeling blue is a state of mind where you´re dominated by your feelings. Primitives feelings, Freud, state of mind, blue, grow up, moon, flesh 実情(じつじょう): real condition, actual circumstances, actual state of affairs 情(じょう): feelings, emotion, passion 情緒(じょうしょ): emotion, feeling 情勢(じょうせい): state of things, condition, situation 情熱(じょうねつ): passion, enthusiasm, zeal 心情(しんじょう): mentality 同情(どうじょう): sympathy, compassion, sympathize, pity, feel for 情け(なさけ): sympathy, compassion 情け深い(なさけぶかい): tender-hearted, compassionate 人情(にんじょう): humanity, empathy, kindness, sympathy, human nature, common sense, customs and manners 愛情(あいじょう): love, affection 感情(かんじょう): emotion(s), feeling(s), sentiment 苦情(くじょう): complaint, troubles, objection 事情(じじょう): circumstances, consideration, conditions, situation, reasons 純情(じゅんじょう): pure heart, naivete, self-sacrificing devotion 情報(じょうほう): information, news, (military) intelligence, gossip 表情(ひょうじょう): facial expression 友情(ゆうじょう): friendship, fellowship Kunyomi: なさ.け Onyomi: ジョウ、セイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 情報 (じょうほう), 情熱 (じょうねつ), 人情 (にんじょう), 情け (なさ.け)	feelings 情 画数11 1657 Details Story Dictionary 情 feelings My Story Q: What emotion are you feeling ? A: My *heart* is *blue* ever since JOE Stalin left me. Feeling blue is a state of mind where you're dominated by your feelings . Koohii #1 Data is feeling blue about not having any feelings ... hey, wait a minute. Koohii #2 Feeling blue is a state of mind where you´re dominated by your feelings. Primitives feelings, Freud, state of mind, blue, grow up, moon, flesh 実情(じつじょう): real condition, actual circumstances, actual state of affairs 情(じょう): feelings, emotion, passion 情緒(じょうしょ): emotion, feeling 情勢(じょうせい): state of things, condition, situation 情熱(じょうねつ): passion, enthusiasm, zeal 心情(しんじょう): mentality 同情(どうじょう): sympathy, compassion, sympathize, pity, feel for 情け(なさけ): sympathy, compassion 情け深い(なさけぶかい): tender-hearted, compassionate 人情(にんじょう): humanity, empathy, kindness, sympathy, human nature, common sense, customs and manners 愛情(あいじょう): love, affection 感情(かんじょう): emotion(s), feeling(s), sentiment 苦情(くじょう): complaint, troubles, objection 事情(じじょう): circumstances, consideration, conditions, situation, reasons 純情(じゅんじょう): pure heart, naivete, self-sacrificing devotion 情報(じょうほう): information, news, (military) intelligence, gossip 表情(ひょうじょう): facial expression 友情(ゆうじょう): friendship, fellowship Kunyomi: なさ.け Onyomi: ジョウ、セイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 情報 (じょうほう), 情熱 (じょうねつ), 人情 (にんじょう), 情け (なさ.け)
clear up Details Story Dictionary 晴 clear up My Story *Sun* and *blue sky*! Yep, the weather's cleared up! Koohii #1 Sun and blue sky! Yep, the weather´s cleared up! Koohii #2 When we speak of clearing up we easily think of both the sun and blue skies. But in another since to clear up is the absence of weather. And therefor the reason weather has no place in its writing. Primitives clear up, sun, day, blue, grow up, moon, flesh 素晴らしい(すばらしい): wonderful, splendid, magnificent 晴天(せいてん): fine weather 見晴らし(みはらし): view 快晴(かいせい): good weather 晴れ(はれ): clear weather 晴れる(はれる): be sunny, clear away, stop raining Kunyomi: は.れる、は.れ、は.れ-、-ば.れ、は.らす Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 晴らす (は.らす), 晴れる (は.れる)	clear up 晴 画数12 1658 Details Story Dictionary 晴 clear up My Story *Sun* and *blue sky*! Yep, the weather's cleared up! Koohii #1 Sun and blue sky! Yep, the weather´s cleared up! Koohii #2 When we speak of clearing up we easily think of both the sun and blue skies. But in another since to clear up is the absence of weather. And therefor the reason weather has no place in its writing. Primitives clear up, sun, day, blue, grow up, moon, flesh 素晴らしい(すばらしい): wonderful, splendid, magnificent 晴天(せいてん): fine weather 見晴らし(みはらし): view 快晴(かいせい): good weather 晴れ(はれ): clear weather 晴れる(はれる): be sunny, clear away, stop raining Kunyomi: は.れる、は.れ、は.れ-、-ば.れ、は.らす Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 晴らす (は.らす), 晴れる (は.れる)
pure Details Story Dictionary 清 pure Heisig's Water . . . blue. Koohii #1 Pure sea water is always a radiant blue. Koohii #2 Bottles of water claim to be pure. They´re generally in blue containers, because blue makes you feel like its that much more pure. Primitives pure, water, water droplets, water pistol, blue, grow up, moon, flesh 清らか(きよらか): clean, pure, chaste 清々しい(すがすがしい): fresh, refreshing 清算(せいさん): liquidation, settlement 清純(せいじゅん): purity, innocence 清濁(せいだく): good and evil, purity and impurity 清い(きよい): clear, pure, noble 清む(すむ): to clear (e.g. weather), become transparent 清潔(せいけつ): clean 清書(せいしょ): clean copy 清掃(せいそう): cleaning Kunyomi: きよ.い、きよ.まる、きよ.める Onyomi: セイ、ショウ、シン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 清潔 (せいけつ), 清算 (せいさん), 粛清 (しゅくせい), 清い (きよ.い), 清まる (きよ.まる), 清める (きよ.める)	pure 清 画数11 1659 Details Story Dictionary 清 pure Heisig's Water . . . blue. Koohii #1 Pure sea water is always a radiant blue. Koohii #2 Bottles of water claim to be pure. They´re generally in blue containers, because blue makes you feel like its that much more pure. Primitives pure, water, water droplets, water pistol, blue, grow up, moon, flesh 清らか(きよらか): clean, pure, chaste 清々しい(すがすがしい): fresh, refreshing 清算(せいさん): liquidation, settlement 清純(せいじゅん): purity, innocence 清濁(せいだく): good and evil, purity and impurity 清い(きよい): clear, pure, noble 清む(すむ): to clear (e.g. weather), become transparent 清潔(せいけつ): clean 清書(せいしょ): clean copy 清掃(せいそう): cleaning Kunyomi: きよ.い、きよ.まる、きよ.める Onyomi: セイ、ショウ、シン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 清潔 (せいけつ), 清算 (せいさん), 粛清 (しゅくせい), 清い (きよ.い), 清まる (きよ.まる), 清める (きよ.める)
quiet Details Story Dictionary 静 quiet Heisig's Blue . . . contend. Do not confuse with calm (Frame 1230). Koohii #1 When someone you know who is normally talkative goes quiet, it´s usually a sign that they are contending with the blues. Koohii #2 Don't confuse with silence (#240), something achieved through action. On the other hand, quiet refers to a personal quality of not speaking out. Members of Blue-man group jump into the wrestling ring of contenders for tag-team wrestling. Though the other contenders are screaming, the blue men never say anything - they are a very quiet bunch, that Blue-man group. Primitive order: blue man group's first and main characteristic is being blue and quiet; only later did they decide to become wrestling contenders. Primitives quiet, blue, grow up, moon, flesh, contend, bound up, rake 安静(あんせい): rest 静止(せいし): stillness, repose, standing still 静的(せいてき): static 静まる(しずまる): calm down, subside, die down, abate, be suppressed 冷静(れいせい): calm, composure, coolness, serenity 静か(しずか): quiet, peaceful Kunyomi: しず-、しず.か、しず.まる、しず.める Onyomi: セイ、ジョウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 静止 (せいし), 静穏 (せいおん), 安静 (あんせい), 静 (しず), 静か (しず.か), 静まる (しず.まる), 静める (しず.める)	quiet 静 画数14 1660 Details Story Dictionary 静 quiet Heisig's Blue . . . contend. Do not confuse with calm (Frame 1230). Koohii #1 When someone you know who is normally talkative goes quiet, it´s usually a sign that they are contending with the blues. Koohii #2 Don't confuse with silence (#240), something achieved through action. On the other hand, quiet refers to a personal quality of not speaking out. Members of Blue-man group jump into the wrestling ring of contenders for tag-team wrestling. Though the other contenders are screaming, the blue men never say anything - they are a very quiet bunch, that Blue-man group. Primitive order: blue man group's first and main characteristic is being blue and quiet; only later did they decide to become wrestling contenders. Primitives quiet, blue, grow up, moon, flesh, contend, bound up, rake 安静(あんせい): rest 静止(せいし): stillness, repose, standing still 静的(せいてき): static 静まる(しずまる): calm down, subside, die down, abate, be suppressed 冷静(れいせい): calm, composure, coolness, serenity 静か(しずか): quiet, peaceful Kunyomi: しず-、しず.か、しず.まる、しず.める Onyomi: セイ、ジョウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 静止 (せいし), 静穏 (せいおん), 安静 (あんせい), 静 (しず), 静か (しず.か), 静まる (しず.まる), 静める (しず.める)
blame Details Story Dictionary 責 blame My Story [Master {主} + money/shellfish {貝}] The *master* blames all his problems on money/shellfish {貝} and women. The *master* blames you for being too SEXY, and as punishment, takes your money/shellfish {貝}. Koohii #1 As one grows up, one typically starts to blame all of their problems on money. Koohii #2 This is the story of a poor fisherman and his wife. A long time ago he caught an oyster with a small but precious pearl. The intelligent wife told him to sell the pearl immediately: the greedy husband figured if he kept the oyster and fed it, it would grow up and yield an even bigger pearl. One day the oyster grew so big, it crashed through the house and escaped back to sea. The angry wife left her husband, blaming his blind greed for their poverty. Primitives blame, grow up, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 責務(せきむ): duty, obligation 責任(せきにん): duty, responsibility 責める(せめる): condemn, blame, criticize Kunyomi: せ.める Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 責める (せ.める)	blame 責 画数11 1661 Details Story Dictionary 責 blame My Story [Master {主} + money/shellfish {貝}] The *master* blames all his problems on money/shellfish {貝} and women. The *master* blames you for being too SEXY, and as punishment, takes your money/shellfish {貝}. Koohii #1 As one grows up, one typically starts to blame all of their problems on money. Koohii #2 This is the story of a poor fisherman and his wife. A long time ago he caught an oyster with a small but precious pearl. The intelligent wife told him to sell the pearl immediately: the greedy husband figured if he kept the oyster and fed it, it would grow up and yield an even bigger pearl. One day the oyster grew so big, it crashed through the house and escaped back to sea. The angry wife left her husband, blaming his blind greed for their poverty. Primitives blame, grow up, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 責務(せきむ): duty, obligation 責任(せきにん): duty, responsibility 責める(せめる): condemn, blame, criticize Kunyomi: せ.める Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 責める (せ.める)
exploits Details Story Dictionary 績 exploits My Story [String + Blame {責}] As the *thread* 糸 of his exploits was unravelled, it became obvious who was to *blame* 責 for the results. 成績 Koohii #1 Spidey´s exploits are world famous but still The Daily Bugle´s pages blame him for every problem out there. Koohii #2 [Geek alert] A lot of modern software is full of exploits which can be abused by hackers. I blame multi-threading. Primitives exploits, thread, spiderman, blame, grow up, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 業績(ぎょうせき): achievement, performance, results, work, contribution 紡績(ぼうせき): spinning 功績(こうせき): achievements, merit, meritorious service, meritorious deed 実績(じっせき): achievements, actual results 成績(せいせき): results, record Kunyomi: Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	exploits 績 画数17 1662 Details Story Dictionary 績 exploits My Story [String + Blame {責}] As the *thread* 糸 of his exploits was unravelled, it became obvious who was to *blame* 責 for the results. 成績 Koohii #1 Spidey´s exploits are world famous but still The Daily Bugle´s pages blame him for every problem out there. Koohii #2 [Geek alert] A lot of modern software is full of exploits which can be abused by hackers. I blame multi-threading. Primitives exploits, thread, spiderman, blame, grow up, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 業績(ぎょうせき): achievement, performance, results, work, contribution 紡績(ぼうせき): spinning 功績(こうせき): achievements, merit, meritorious service, meritorious deed 実績(じっせき): achievements, actual results 成績(せいせき): results, record Kunyomi: Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
"volume Details Story Dictionary 積 volume Heisig's Wheat . . . blame. This key word has to do with measurement, and should be kept distinct from the kanji for quantity (Frame 189) - even though the meanings are similar. Koohii #1 On many wheat cereal boxes, there is a disclaimer stating that ""This package is sold by weight, not by volume. Some settling of contents may have occurred."" well they only say that because they don´t want to be blamed by people getting really disappointed after they see what a small volume of cereal the box really contains. Koohii #2 The volume of the wheat crop is way down this year! Blame the weather! Primitives volume, wheat, cereal, blame, grow up, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 蓄積(ちくせき): accumulation, accumulate, store 積もり(つもり): intention, plan 見積り(みつもり): estimation, quotation 積極的(せっきょくてき): positive, active, proactive 体積(たいせき): capacity, volume 積む(つむ): pile up, stack 積もる(つもる): pile up 面積(めんせき): area 容積(ようせき): capacity, volume Kunyomi: つ.む、-づ.み、つ.もる、つ.もり Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 積む (つ.む), 積もる (つ.もる)"	"volume 積 画数16 1663 Details Story Dictionary 積 volume Heisig's Wheat . . . blame. This key word has to do with measurement, and should be kept distinct from the kanji for quantity (Frame 189) - even though the meanings are similar. Koohii #1 On many wheat cereal boxes, there is a disclaimer stating that ""This package is sold by weight, not by volume. Some settling of contents may have occurred."" well they only say that because they don´t want to be blamed by people getting really disappointed after they see what a small volume of cereal the box really contains. Koohii #2 The volume of the wheat crop is way down this year! Blame the weather! Primitives volume, wheat, cereal, blame, grow up, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 蓄積(ちくせき): accumulation, accumulate, store 積もり(つもり): intention, plan 見積り(みつもり): estimation, quotation 積極的(せっきょくてき): positive, active, proactive 体積(たいせき): capacity, volume 積む(つむ): pile up, stack 積もる(つもる): pile up 面積(めんせき): area 容積(ようせき): capacity, volume Kunyomi: つ.む、-づ.み、つ.もる、つ.もり Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 積む (つ.む), 積もる (つ.もる)"
bond Details Story Dictionary 債 bond Heisig's Person . . . blame. The key word refers to financial bonds. Koohii #1 Bonds are guarnteed by the government so if they fail there is one person you can blame - the prime minister! Koohii #2 Mr. T´s plot of world domination is foiled. Who is to blame? Bond. James Bond. Primitives bond, person, blame, grow up, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 負債(ふさい): debt, liabilities Kunyomi: Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	bond 債 画数13 1664 Details Story Dictionary 債 bond Heisig's Person . . . blame. The key word refers to financial bonds. Koohii #1 Bonds are guarnteed by the government so if they fail there is one person you can blame - the prime minister! Koohii #2 Mr. T´s plot of world domination is foiled. Who is to blame? Bond. James Bond. Primitives bond, person, blame, grow up, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 負債(ふさい): debt, liabilities Kunyomi: Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
pickling Details Story Dictionary 漬 pickling Heisig's Water . . . blame. Koohii #1 When pickling you MUST use distilled water! When it doesn´t come out right, generally it is the water that is to blame. Koohii #2 Bad water is to blame for the process of pickling. Primitives pickling, water, water droplets, water pistol, blame, grow up, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 漬ける(つける): soak, pickle Kunyomi: つ.ける、つ.かる、-づ.け、-づけ Onyomi: シ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 漬かる (つ.かる), 漬ける (つ.ける)	pickling 漬 画数14 1665 Details Story Dictionary 漬 pickling Heisig's Water . . . blame. Koohii #1 When pickling you MUST use distilled water! When it doesn´t come out right, generally it is the water that is to blame. Koohii #2 Bad water is to blame for the process of pickling. Primitives pickling, water, water droplets, water pistol, blame, grow up, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 漬ける(つける): soak, pickle Kunyomi: つ.ける、つ.かる、-づ.け、-づけ Onyomi: シ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 漬かる (つ.かる), 漬ける (つ.ける)
express Details Story Dictionary 表 express My Story Express: The *Master* *expressed* his concern by have his *nuts kicked* Koohii #1 When I was GROWING UP, the SURFACE of my SCARF was always covered with snot from blowing my nose on it. Koohii #2 (Thanks to zerOrange) I grew up underground, and whenever I went to the surface I wore a scarf to avoid scrutiny. Primitives surface, grow up, scarf 時刻表(じこくひょう): table, diagram, chart, timetable, schedule 表す(あらわす): express, show, reveal 公表(こうひょう): official announcement, proclamation 図表(ずひょう): chart, diagram, graph 代表(だいひょう): representative, representation, delegation, type, example, model 発表(はっぴょう): announcement, publication 表(ひょう): table (in a document), chart, list 表現(ひょうげん): expression, presentation, (mathematics) representation 表紙(ひょうし): front cover, binding 表情(ひょうじょう): facial expression 表面(ひょうめん): surface, outside, face, appearance 表(おもて): the front Kunyomi: おもて、-おもて、あらわ.す、あらわ.れる、あら.わす Onyomi: ヒョウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 表す (あらわ.す), 表れる (あらわ.れる), 表 (おもて)	express 表 画数8 1666 Details Story Dictionary 表 express My Story Express: The *Master* *expressed* his concern by have his *nuts kicked* Koohii #1 When I was GROWING UP, the SURFACE of my SCARF was always covered with snot from blowing my nose on it. Koohii #2 (Thanks to zerOrange) I grew up underground, and whenever I went to the surface I wore a scarf to avoid scrutiny. Primitives surface, grow up, scarf 時刻表(じこくひょう): table, diagram, chart, timetable, schedule 表す(あらわす): express, show, reveal 公表(こうひょう): official announcement, proclamation 図表(ずひょう): chart, diagram, graph 代表(だいひょう): representative, representation, delegation, type, example, model 発表(はっぴょう): announcement, publication 表(ひょう): table (in a document), chart, list 表現(ひょうげん): expression, presentation, (mathematics) representation 表紙(ひょうし): front cover, binding 表情(ひょうじょう): facial expression 表面(ひょうめん): surface, outside, face, appearance 表(おもて): the front Kunyomi: おもて、-おもて、あらわ.す、あらわ.れる、あら.わす Onyomi: ヒョウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 表す (あらわ.す), 表れる (あらわ.れる), 表 (おもて)
bag Details Story Dictionary 俵 bag Heisig's Keep this kanji distinct from that for sack (Frame 1081). Its elements are: person . . . surface. Koohii #1 Superficial people (ie those who are only concerned about the surface) are obsessed with expensive bags. Koohii #2 Do you know why every person in Japan has a Louis Vuitton bag? After the 1985 JAL air crash that killed 520 people (the world´s worst). An image on tv of the crash showed Louis Vuitton bags (whose LV logo covered surface was somehow impervious) litering the crash site. From that point on they stuck in Japanese people´s mind´s as durable and high quality. (True story). Primitives bag, person, surface, grow up, scarf 土俵(どひょう): arena Kunyomi: たわら Onyomi: ヒョウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 俵 (たわら)	bag 俵 画数10 1667 Details Story Dictionary 俵 bag Heisig's Keep this kanji distinct from that for sack (Frame 1081). Its elements are: person . . . surface. Koohii #1 Superficial people (ie those who are only concerned about the surface) are obsessed with expensive bags. Koohii #2 Do you know why every person in Japan has a Louis Vuitton bag? After the 1985 JAL air crash that killed 520 people (the world´s worst). An image on tv of the crash showed Louis Vuitton bags (whose LV logo covered surface was somehow impervious) litering the crash site. From that point on they stuck in Japanese people´s mind´s as durable and high quality. (True story). Primitives bag, person, surface, grow up, scarf 土俵(どひょう): arena Kunyomi: たわら Onyomi: ヒョウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 俵 (たわら)
undefiled Details Story Dictionary 潔 undefiled Heisig's Water . . . grow up . . . dagger . . . thread. Do not confuse with upright (Frame 58). Koohii #1 To ensure she remained undefiled, a young girl growing up in a rough area always kept a dagger concealed under her threads, even when she went into the water. Koohii #2 (rgravina) To ensure she remained undefiled, a young girl growing up in a rough area always kept a dagger concealed under her Spiderman underwear (to remember the position of thread), even when she went into the water. Primitives undefiled, water, water droplets, water pistol, flick knife, grow up, sword, dagger, thread, spiderman 簡潔(かんけつ): brevity, conciseness, simplicity 清潔(せいけつ): clean 不潔(ふけつ): unclean, dirty, filthy, impure Kunyomi: いさぎよ.い Onyomi: ケツ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 潔い (いさぎよ.い)	undefiled 潔 画数15 1668 Details Story Dictionary 潔 undefiled Heisig's Water . . . grow up . . . dagger . . . thread. Do not confuse with upright (Frame 58). Koohii #1 To ensure she remained undefiled, a young girl growing up in a rough area always kept a dagger concealed under her threads, even when she went into the water. Koohii #2 (rgravina) To ensure she remained undefiled, a young girl growing up in a rough area always kept a dagger concealed under her Spiderman underwear (to remember the position of thread), even when she went into the water. Primitives undefiled, water, water droplets, water pistol, flick knife, grow up, sword, dagger, thread, spiderman 簡潔(かんけつ): brevity, conciseness, simplicity 清潔(せいけつ): clean 不潔(ふけつ): unclean, dirty, filthy, impure Kunyomi: いさぎよ.い Onyomi: ケツ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 潔い (いさぎよ.い)
pledge Details Story Dictionary 契 pledge Heisig's Grow up . . . dagger . . . St. Bernard dog. The connotation of this character should be kept distinct from that for vow (Frame 1214) and promise (Frame 1462). Koohii #1 Imagine a totalitarian regime where, while growing up, you have to pledge allegiance to the flag at dagger-point and with St. Bernard guard dogs watching you. Koohii #2 In order to pledge into her sorority, Alice had to stab a St. Bernard with a dagger. (Come on! DO it, Alice!). Primitives pledge, flick knife, grow up, dagger, large, St. Bernard 契機(けいき): opportunity, chance 契る(ちぎる): to pledge, to promise, to swear 契約(けいやく): contract, compact, agreement Kunyomi: ちぎ.る Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 契る (ちぎ.る)	pledge 契 画数9 1669 Details Story Dictionary 契 pledge Heisig's Grow up . . . dagger . . . St. Bernard dog. The connotation of this character should be kept distinct from that for vow (Frame 1214) and promise (Frame 1462). Koohii #1 Imagine a totalitarian regime where, while growing up, you have to pledge allegiance to the flag at dagger-point and with St. Bernard guard dogs watching you. Koohii #2 In order to pledge into her sorority, Alice had to stab a St. Bernard with a dagger. (Come on! DO it, Alice!). Primitives pledge, flick knife, grow up, dagger, large, St. Bernard 契機(けいき): opportunity, chance 契る(ちぎる): to pledge, to promise, to swear 契約(けいやく): contract, compact, agreement Kunyomi: ちぎ.る Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 契る (ちぎ.る)
consume Details Story Dictionary 喫 consume Heisig's Mouth . . . pledge. Koohii #1 This means eat/drink/smoke. Maybe you make a pledge to stop gutsing/binging/puffing, but your own mouth is tempting you to put something in it. Koohii #2 I make my mouth pledge to consume less. Primitives consume, mouth, pledge, flick knife, grow up, dagger, large, St. Bernard 喫茶(きっさ): tea drinking, tea house 喫茶店(きっさてん): coffee shop Kunyomi: Onyomi: キツ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	consume 喫 画数12 1670 Details Story Dictionary 喫 consume Heisig's Mouth . . . pledge. Koohii #1 This means eat/drink/smoke. Maybe you make a pledge to stop gutsing/binging/puffing, but your own mouth is tempting you to put something in it. Koohii #2 I make my mouth pledge to consume less. Primitives consume, mouth, pledge, flick knife, grow up, dagger, large, St. Bernard 喫茶(きっさ): tea drinking, tea house 喫茶店(きっさてん): coffee shop Kunyomi: Onyomi: キツ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
harm Details Story Dictionary 害 harm Heisig's House . . . grow up . . . mouth. Koohii #1 With kids growing up in your house, you have to keep them from harm of putting anything in their mouth, paint chips, bleach, knvies, etc. Koohii #2 This is silly, but.. If a house suddenly grows up from your mouth, you will come to great harm. Primitives harm, mansion, house, grow up, mouth 害する(がいする): to injure, to damage, to harm, to kill, to hinder 危害(きがい): injury, harm, danger 災害(さいがい): calamity, disaster, misfortune 迫害(はくがい): persecution 妨害(ぼうがい): disturbance, obstruction, hindrance, jamming, interference 害(がい): injury, harm, damage, evil influence 公害(こうがい): public nuisance, pollution 障害(しょうがい): obstacle, impediment (fault), damage 損害(そんがい): damage, injury, loss 被害(ひがい): damage 利害(りがい): advantages and disadvantages, interest Kunyomi: Onyomi: ガイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	harm 害 画数10 1671 Details Story Dictionary 害 harm Heisig's House . . . grow up . . . mouth. Koohii #1 With kids growing up in your house, you have to keep them from harm of putting anything in their mouth, paint chips, bleach, knvies, etc. Koohii #2 This is silly, but.. If a house suddenly grows up from your mouth, you will come to great harm. Primitives harm, mansion, house, grow up, mouth 害する(がいする): to injure, to damage, to harm, to kill, to hinder 危害(きがい): injury, harm, danger 災害(さいがい): calamity, disaster, misfortune 迫害(はくがい): persecution 妨害(ぼうがい): disturbance, obstruction, hindrance, jamming, interference 害(がい): injury, harm, damage, evil influence 公害(こうがい): public nuisance, pollution 障害(しょうがい): obstacle, impediment (fault), damage 損害(そんがい): damage, injury, loss 被害(ひがい): damage 利害(りがい): advantages and disadvantages, interest Kunyomi: Onyomi: ガイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
"control Details Story Dictionary 轄 control Heisig's Car . . . harm. Hint: the image of an auto going ""out of control"" may help keep this key word distinct from others like it, such as manipulate (Frame 864). Koohii #1 The roads are icy, and a whole bunch of cars have spun out of control! Luckily, it was just a couple of dents; nobody was harmed. Koohii #2 Control is very important! Especially when operating a car. Few people realize the harm they can cause just by losing control of their car for a second. Tremendous harm. Stay in control! Primitives control, car, harm, mansion, house, grow up, mouth Kunyomi: くさび Onyomi: カツ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"control 轄 画数17 1672 Details Story Dictionary 轄 control Heisig's Car . . . harm. Hint: the image of an auto going ""out of control"" may help keep this key word distinct from others like it, such as manipulate (Frame 864). Koohii #1 The roads are icy, and a whole bunch of cars have spun out of control! Luckily, it was just a couple of dents; nobody was harmed. Koohii #2 Control is very important! Especially when operating a car. Few people realize the harm they can cause just by losing control of their car for a second. Tremendous harm. Stay in control! Primitives control, car, harm, mansion, house, grow up, mouth Kunyomi: くさび Onyomi: カツ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
proportion Details Story Dictionary 割 proportion Heisig's Harm . . . saber. Koohii #1 [proportion; comparatively; divide; cut; separate; split] Hey, don´t take this out of proportion! I did you just a little harm, no need to come over here with a saber... Koohii #2 As shown on this pie-chart, the proportion of people harmed by sabres is relatively a small slice compared to those harmed by guns. Primitives proportion, harm, mansion, house, grow up, mouth, sword, sabre, saber 割(かつ): divide, cut, halve, separate, split, rip, break, crack, smash, dilute 割合(わりあい): rate, ratio, proportion, comparatively, contrary to expectations 割り当て(わりあて): allotment, assignment, allocation, quota, rationing 割り込む(わりこむ): to cut in, to thrust oneself into, to wedge oneself in, to muscle in on, to interrupt, to disturb 割り算(わりざん): division (math) 時間割(じかんわり): timetable, schedule 役割(やくわり): part, assigning (allotment of) parts, role, duties 割算(わりざん): (mathematics) division 割と(わりと): relatively, comparatively 割引(わりびき): discount, reduction, rebate, tenths discounted 割る(わる): divide, cut, break, halve, separate, split, rip, crack, smash, dilute 割合に(わりあいに): comparatively 割れる(われる): split, crack Kunyomi: わ.る、わり、わ.り、わ.れる、さ.く Onyomi: カツ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 割く (さ.く), 割る (わ.る), 割れる (わ.れる), 割 (わり)	proportion 割 画数12 1673 Details Story Dictionary 割 proportion Heisig's Harm . . . saber. Koohii #1 [proportion; comparatively; divide; cut; separate; split] Hey, don´t take this out of proportion! I did you just a little harm, no need to come over here with a saber... Koohii #2 As shown on this pie-chart, the proportion of people harmed by sabres is relatively a small slice compared to those harmed by guns. Primitives proportion, harm, mansion, house, grow up, mouth, sword, sabre, saber 割(かつ): divide, cut, halve, separate, split, rip, break, crack, smash, dilute 割合(わりあい): rate, ratio, proportion, comparatively, contrary to expectations 割り当て(わりあて): allotment, assignment, allocation, quota, rationing 割り込む(わりこむ): to cut in, to thrust oneself into, to wedge oneself in, to muscle in on, to interrupt, to disturb 割り算(わりざん): division (math) 時間割(じかんわり): timetable, schedule 役割(やくわり): part, assigning (allotment of) parts, role, duties 割算(わりざん): (mathematics) division 割と(わりと): relatively, comparatively 割引(わりびき): discount, reduction, rebate, tenths discounted 割る(わる): divide, cut, break, halve, separate, split, rip, crack, smash, dilute 割合に(わりあいに): comparatively 割れる(われる): split, crack Kunyomi: わ.る、わり、わ.り、わ.れる、さ.く Onyomi: カツ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 割く (さ.く), 割る (わ.る), 割れる (わ.れる), 割 (わり)
constitution Details Story Dictionary 憲 constitution My Story [Crown + Master + net + heart] The *crowned* *master* has banned all dark *nets* and illegal *heart* stealing operations in his latest version of the constitution V69.420 Koohii #1 The constitution is important. At least my parents thought so. In the house where I grew up, it was framed on the wall. Under the watchful (sideways) eye of my mother, we had to study it until we knew it by heart. Koohii #2 The constitution states the following rights: You may live in your own house and grow up. And you will never be watched by big brother's eye so they cannot control your heart (your believes). Primitives constitution, mansion, house, grow up, eye, cross-eyed, net, heart 憲法(けんぽう): constitution Kunyomi: Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	constitution 憲 画数16 1674 Details Story Dictionary 憲 constitution My Story [Crown + Master + net + heart] The *crowned* *master* has banned all dark *nets* and illegal *heart* stealing operations in his latest version of the constitution V69.420 Koohii #1 The constitution is important. At least my parents thought so. In the house where I grew up, it was framed on the wall. Under the watchful (sideways) eye of my mother, we had to study it until we knew it by heart. Koohii #2 The constitution states the following rights: You may live in your own house and grow up. And you will never be watched by big brother's eye so they cannot control your heart (your believes). Primitives constitution, mansion, house, grow up, eye, cross-eyed, net, heart 憲法(けんぽう): constitution Kunyomi: Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
life Details Story Dictionary 生 life Heisig's A single drop added to the element for grow up gives us the character for life. * As a primitive, we may think of a microscopic cell, that miraculous unit that grows up to become a living being. Koohii #1 This is the first CELL of a human, the foundation of its entire LIFE, a small DROP that will GROW UP to form a complex organism. Koohii #2 Growing Up is just a Drop of our LIFE. Primitives life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up 生かす(いかす): to revive, to resuscitate, to make use of 生まれつき(うまれつき): by nature, by birth, native 衛生(えいせい): health, hygiene, sanitation, medical 生(き): pure, undiluted, raw, crude 生真面目(きまじめ): too serious, person who is too serious, honesty, sincerity 再生(さいせい): playback, regeneration, resuscitation, return to life, rebirth, reincarnation, narrow escape, reclamation, regrowth 出生(しゅっしょう): birth 新入生(しんにゅうせい): freshman, first-year student 生育(せいいく): growth, development, breeding 生活(せいかつ): living, life (one´s daily existence), livelihood 生計(せいけい): livelihood, living 生死(せいし): life and death 生長(せいちょう): growth, increment 生理(せいり): physiology, menses 畜生(ちくしょう): beast, brute, damn 生臭い(なまぐさい): smelling of fish or blood, fish or meat 生温い(なまぬるい): lukewarm, halfhearted 生身(なまみ): living flesh, flesh and blood, the quick 年生(ねんせい): pupil in .... year, student in .... year 発生(はっせい): outbreak, spring forth, occurrence, incidence, origin 生やす(はやす): to grow, to cultivate, to wear beard 野生(やせい): wild 生き生き(いきいき): vividly, lively 生き物(いきもの): animal 生け花(いけばな): flower arrangement 一生(いっしょう): lifetime, all through life, generation, age, era, the whole world 生まれ(うまれ): birth, birth-place 生地(きじ): cloth, material, texture, one´s true character, unglazed pottery 芝生(しばふ): lawn 写生(しゃせい): sketch, drawing from nature, portrayal, description 小学生(しょうがくせい): grade school student 生じる(しょうじる): produce, yield, result from, arise, be generated 生ずる(しょうずる): cause, arise, be generated 人生(じんせい): (human) life (i.e. conception to death) 生産(せいさん): production, manufacture 生存(せいぞん): existence, being, survival 生年月日(せいねんがっぴ): birth date 生物(せいぶつ): living things, creature 生命(せいめい): life, existence 誕生(たんじょう): birth 生(なま): raw, unprocessed 生意気(なまいき): impertinent, saucy, cheeky, conceit, audacious, brazen 生る(なる): bear fruit 生える(はえる): grow, spring up 生きる(いきる): live, exist 一生懸命(いっしょうけんめい): as well as one can, as hard as one can 高校生(こうこうせい): high school student 大学生(だいがくせい): university student 生まれる(うまれる): be born 学生(がくせい): student 生徒(せいと): pupil 先生(せんせい): teacher, master, doctor 誕生日(たんじょうび): birthday 留学生(りゅうがくせい): overseas student Kunyomi: い.きる、い.かす、い.ける、う.まれる、う.まれ、うまれ、う.む、お.う、は.える、は.やす、き、なま、なま-、な.る、な.す、む.す、-う Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 生活 (せいかつ), 発生 (はっせい), 先生 (せんせい), 生かす (い.かす), 生きる (い.きる), 生ける (い.ける), 生まれる (う.まれる), 生む (う.む), 生う (お.う), 生 (き), 生 (なま), 生える (は.える), 生やす (は.やす)	life 生 画数5 1675 Details Story Dictionary 生 life Heisig's A single drop added to the element for grow up gives us the character for life. * As a primitive, we may think of a microscopic cell, that miraculous unit that grows up to become a living being. Koohii #1 This is the first CELL of a human, the foundation of its entire LIFE, a small DROP that will GROW UP to form a complex organism. Koohii #2 Growing Up is just a Drop of our LIFE. Primitives life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up 生かす(いかす): to revive, to resuscitate, to make use of 生まれつき(うまれつき): by nature, by birth, native 衛生(えいせい): health, hygiene, sanitation, medical 生(き): pure, undiluted, raw, crude 生真面目(きまじめ): too serious, person who is too serious, honesty, sincerity 再生(さいせい): playback, regeneration, resuscitation, return to life, rebirth, reincarnation, narrow escape, reclamation, regrowth 出生(しゅっしょう): birth 新入生(しんにゅうせい): freshman, first-year student 生育(せいいく): growth, development, breeding 生活(せいかつ): living, life (one´s daily existence), livelihood 生計(せいけい): livelihood, living 生死(せいし): life and death 生長(せいちょう): growth, increment 生理(せいり): physiology, menses 畜生(ちくしょう): beast, brute, damn 生臭い(なまぐさい): smelling of fish or blood, fish or meat 生温い(なまぬるい): lukewarm, halfhearted 生身(なまみ): living flesh, flesh and blood, the quick 年生(ねんせい): pupil in .... year, student in .... year 発生(はっせい): outbreak, spring forth, occurrence, incidence, origin 生やす(はやす): to grow, to cultivate, to wear beard 野生(やせい): wild 生き生き(いきいき): vividly, lively 生き物(いきもの): animal 生け花(いけばな): flower arrangement 一生(いっしょう): lifetime, all through life, generation, age, era, the whole world 生まれ(うまれ): birth, birth-place 生地(きじ): cloth, material, texture, one´s true character, unglazed pottery 芝生(しばふ): lawn 写生(しゃせい): sketch, drawing from nature, portrayal, description 小学生(しょうがくせい): grade school student 生じる(しょうじる): produce, yield, result from, arise, be generated 生ずる(しょうずる): cause, arise, be generated 人生(じんせい): (human) life (i.e. conception to death) 生産(せいさん): production, manufacture 生存(せいぞん): existence, being, survival 生年月日(せいねんがっぴ): birth date 生物(せいぶつ): living things, creature 生命(せいめい): life, existence 誕生(たんじょう): birth 生(なま): raw, unprocessed 生意気(なまいき): impertinent, saucy, cheeky, conceit, audacious, brazen 生る(なる): bear fruit 生える(はえる): grow, spring up 生きる(いきる): live, exist 一生懸命(いっしょうけんめい): as well as one can, as hard as one can 高校生(こうこうせい): high school student 大学生(だいがくせい): university student 生まれる(うまれる): be born 学生(がくせい): student 生徒(せいと): pupil 先生(せんせい): teacher, master, doctor 誕生日(たんじょうび): birthday 留学生(りゅうがくせい): overseas student Kunyomi: い.きる、い.かす、い.ける、う.まれる、う.まれ、うまれ、う.む、お.う、は.える、は.やす、き、なま、なま-、な.る、な.す、む.す、-う Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 生活 (せいかつ), 発生 (はっせい), 先生 (せんせい), 生かす (い.かす), 生きる (い.きる), 生ける (い.ける), 生まれる (う.まれる), 生む (う.む), 生う (お.う), 生 (き), 生 (なま), 生える (は.える), 生やす (は.やす)
star Details Story Dictionary 星 star Heisig's Sun . . . cell. Koohii #1 The sun is the nearest star to the only planet with life - Earth. Koohii #2 Sun is a star that has given life. Can´t say that of any other stars yet. Primitives star, sun, day, life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up 火星(かせい): Mars (planet) 星座(せいざ): constellation 惑星(わくせい): planet 衛星(えいせい): satellite 星(ほし): star Kunyomi: ほし、-ぼし Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 星座 (せいざ), 流星 (りゅうせい), 衛星 (えいせい), 星 (ほし)	star 星 画数9 1676 Details Story Dictionary 星 star Heisig's Sun . . . cell. Koohii #1 The sun is the nearest star to the only planet with life - Earth. Koohii #2 Sun is a star that has given life. Can´t say that of any other stars yet. Primitives star, sun, day, life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up 火星(かせい): Mars (planet) 星座(せいざ): constellation 惑星(わくせい): planet 衛星(えいせい): satellite 星(ほし): star Kunyomi: ほし、-ぼし Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 星座 (せいざ), 流星 (りゅうせい), 衛星 (えいせい), 星 (ほし)
awakening Details Story Dictionary 醒 awakening Heisig's Whisky bottle . . . star. Koohii #1 On awakening the first thing I notice is a (nearly empty) whiskey bottle by my bed. Then I see the stars are still shining. “I think I’ll go back to sleep and try awakening again later.”. Koohii #2 You´ll need an awakening after the whiskey bottle makes you see stars. Primitives awakening, whiskey bottle, star, sun, day, life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up Kunyomi: さ.ます、さ.める Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	awakening 醒 画数16 1677 Details Story Dictionary 醒 awakening Heisig's Whisky bottle . . . star. Koohii #1 On awakening the first thing I notice is a (nearly empty) whiskey bottle by my bed. Then I see the stars are still shining. “I think I’ll go back to sleep and try awakening again later.”. Koohii #2 You´ll need an awakening after the whiskey bottle makes you see stars. Primitives awakening, whiskey bottle, star, sun, day, life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up Kunyomi: さ.ます、さ.める Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
"surname Details Story Dictionary 姓 surname Heisig's Woman . . . cell. Koohii #1 When women marry, they adopt the surname of their husband, signifiying the start of a new life together. (adapted from gorgon). Koohii #2 Woman change their surname when they ""start their new life"". Primitives surname, woman, life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up 姓名(せいめい): full name 姓(せい): surname, family name Kunyomi: Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 姓名 (せいめい), 改姓 (かいせい), 同姓 (どうせい)"	"surname 姓 画数8 1678 Details Story Dictionary 姓 surname Heisig's Woman . . . cell. Koohii #1 When women marry, they adopt the surname of their husband, signifiying the start of a new life together. (adapted from gorgon). Koohii #2 Woman change their surname when they ""start their new life"". Primitives surname, woman, life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up 姓名(せいめい): full name 姓(せい): surname, family name Kunyomi: Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 姓名 (せいめい), 改姓 (かいせい), 同姓 (どうせい)"
sex Details Story Dictionary 性 sex Heisig's State of mind . . . cell. Koohii #1 Sex is the only state of mind for many men through their whole life. Koohii #2 When you´re in the state of mind for creating new lives. Primitives sex, Freud, state of mind, life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up 異性(いせい): the opposite sex 個性(こせい): individuality, personality, idiosyncrasy 知性(ちせい): intelligence 適性(てきせい): aptitude 理性(りせい): reason, sense 酸性(さんせい): acidity 性(せい): sex, gender 性格(せいかく): character, personality 性質(せいしつ): nature, property, disposition 性能(せいのう): ability, efficiency 性別(せいべつ): distinction by sex, sex, gender 中性(ちゅうせい): neuter gender, neutral (chem.), indifference, sterility 女性(じょせい): woman 男性(だんせい): male Kunyomi: さが Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 性質 (せいしつ), 理性 (りせい), 男性 (だんせい)	sex 性 画数8 1679 Details Story Dictionary 性 sex Heisig's State of mind . . . cell. Koohii #1 Sex is the only state of mind for many men through their whole life. Koohii #2 When you´re in the state of mind for creating new lives. Primitives sex, Freud, state of mind, life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up 異性(いせい): the opposite sex 個性(こせい): individuality, personality, idiosyncrasy 知性(ちせい): intelligence 適性(てきせい): aptitude 理性(りせい): reason, sense 酸性(さんせい): acidity 性(せい): sex, gender 性格(せいかく): character, personality 性質(せいしつ): nature, property, disposition 性能(せいのう): ability, efficiency 性別(せいべつ): distinction by sex, sex, gender 中性(ちゅうせい): neuter gender, neutral (chem.), indifference, sterility 女性(じょせい): woman 男性(だんせい): male Kunyomi: さが Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 性質 (せいしつ), 理性 (りせい), 男性 (だんせい)
animal sacrifice Details Story Dictionary 牲 animal sacrifice Heisig's Cow . . . cell. Koohii #1 Animal sacrifice = taking the life of a cow. Koohii #2 In the 21st century, animal sacrifice is no longer really necessary. We can take a single cell from a cow, with no harm to the cow. We create a viable cell line from this single cell, and feed the resulting biomatter into a furnace at the exact rate necessary to appease the gods. Primitives animal sacrifice, cow, life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up 犠牲(ぎせい): sacrifice Kunyomi: Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	animal sacrifice 牲 画数9 1680 Details Story Dictionary 牲 animal sacrifice Heisig's Cow . . . cell. Koohii #1 Animal sacrifice = taking the life of a cow. Koohii #2 In the 21st century, animal sacrifice is no longer really necessary. We can take a single cell from a cow, with no harm to the cow. We create a viable cell line from this single cell, and feed the resulting biomatter into a furnace at the exact rate necessary to appease the gods. Primitives animal sacrifice, cow, life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up 犠牲(ぎせい): sacrifice Kunyomi: Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"products Details Story Dictionary 産 products Heisig's Vase . . . cliff . . . cell. Koohii #1 If you were to stand up all the products you have accumulated over the course of your entire life on top of one another, the result would probably be as tall as a cliff. Koohii #2 The salesman is standing on the cliff´s edge. ""Buy my products!! Buy my products! Or else I´ll take my own life""! Man, that´s selling on pressure. Primitives products, vase, stand up, cliff, life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up 産む(うむ): to give birth, to deliver, to produce お産(おさん): (giving) birth 国産(こくさん): domestic products 産休(さんきゅう): maternity leave 産後(さんご): postpartum, after childbirth 産出(さんしゅつ): yield, produce 産婦人科(さんふじんか): maternity and gynecology department 産物(さんぶつ): product, result, fruit 資産(しさん): property, fortune, means, assets 出産(しゅっさん): (child)birth, delivery, production (of goods) 畜産(ちくさん): animal husbandry 倒産(とうさん): (corporate) bankruptcy, insolvency 特産(とくさん): specialty, special product 土産(どさん): product of the land 不動産(ふどうさん): real estate 名産(めいさん): noted product 共産(きょうさん): communism 原産(げんさん): place of origin, habitat 財産(ざいさん): property, fortune, assets 産業(さんぎょう): industry 産地(さんち): producing area 水産(すいさん): marine products, fisheries 生産(せいさん): production, manufacture 農産物(のうさんぶつ): agricultural produce 破産(はさん): (personal) bankruptcy 土産(みやげ): product of the land お土産(おみやげ): souvenir Kunyomi: う.む、う.まれる、うぶ-、む.す Onyomi: サン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 産まれる (う.まれる), 産む (う.む), 産 (うぶ)"	"products 産 画数11 1681 Details Story Dictionary 産 products Heisig's Vase . . . cliff . . . cell. Koohii #1 If you were to stand up all the products you have accumulated over the course of your entire life on top of one another, the result would probably be as tall as a cliff. Koohii #2 The salesman is standing on the cliff´s edge. ""Buy my products!! Buy my products! Or else I´ll take my own life""! Man, that´s selling on pressure. Primitives products, vase, stand up, cliff, life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up 産む(うむ): to give birth, to deliver, to produce お産(おさん): (giving) birth 国産(こくさん): domestic products 産休(さんきゅう): maternity leave 産後(さんご): postpartum, after childbirth 産出(さんしゅつ): yield, produce 産婦人科(さんふじんか): maternity and gynecology department 産物(さんぶつ): product, result, fruit 資産(しさん): property, fortune, means, assets 出産(しゅっさん): (child)birth, delivery, production (of goods) 畜産(ちくさん): animal husbandry 倒産(とうさん): (corporate) bankruptcy, insolvency 特産(とくさん): specialty, special product 土産(どさん): product of the land 不動産(ふどうさん): real estate 名産(めいさん): noted product 共産(きょうさん): communism 原産(げんさん): place of origin, habitat 財産(ざいさん): property, fortune, assets 産業(さんぎょう): industry 産地(さんち): producing area 水産(すいさん): marine products, fisheries 生産(せいさん): production, manufacture 農産物(のうさんぶつ): agricultural produce 破産(はさん): (personal) bankruptcy 土産(みやげ): product of the land お土産(おみやげ): souvenir Kunyomi: う.む、う.まれる、うぶ-、む.す Onyomi: サン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 産まれる (う.まれる), 産む (う.む), 産 (うぶ)"
"hump Details Story Dictionary 隆 hump Heisig's This character, used for everything from little humps of hills to camel humps, easily suggests the hunch on the pig's back and hind parts where the best cuts of meat are to be found (and hence the English expression for luxury, ""living high off the hog."") The elements we have to work with are: pinnacle . . . walking legs . . . cell. Koohii #1 You are struggling to the top across the humps, but you suddenly see the pinnacle and you feel new life in your walking legs. Koohii #2 A woman takes her bra off and what happens? Nine months later the hump in her belly pops out between her legs as a new life. Primitives hump, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, walking legs, life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up Kunyomi: Onyomi: リュウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"hump 隆 画数11 1682 Details Story Dictionary 隆 hump Heisig's This character, used for everything from little humps of hills to camel humps, easily suggests the hunch on the pig's back and hind parts where the best cuts of meat are to be found (and hence the English expression for luxury, ""living high off the hog."") The elements we have to work with are: pinnacle . . . walking legs . . . cell. Koohii #1 You are struggling to the top across the humps, but you suddenly see the pinnacle and you feel new life in your walking legs. Koohii #2 A woman takes her bra off and what happens? Nine months later the hump in her belly pops out between her legs as a new life. Primitives hump, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, walking legs, life, This is Your Life, cell, drop, grow up Kunyomi: Onyomi: リュウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"summit Details Story Dictionary 峰 summit Heisig's Mountain . . . walking legs . . . bushes. Koohii #1 Walking legs over ""bushes"" needs to have a primitive meaning of its own. It appears in several kanji, such as 縫 sew (#1563), 逢 tryst (#2417), 蜂 bee (#2687), and 鋒 sword´s point (#2768), and it is clumsy to work bushes and walking legs into every story. ""Pointy"" works fairly well: the walking legs are stuck on top of the pointy part of the bush; and for this character: a summit is the pointy end of a mountain. Koohii #2 Upon reaching the summit of the mountain, I noticed my walking legs were all gouged up from walking through prickly bushes. Primitives summit, mountain, Segway, Macbeth, walking legs, bushes 峰(みね): peak, ridge Kunyomi: みね、ね Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 峰 (みね)"	"summit 峰 画数10 1683 Details Story Dictionary 峰 summit Heisig's Mountain . . . walking legs . . . bushes. Koohii #1 Walking legs over ""bushes"" needs to have a primitive meaning of its own. It appears in several kanji, such as 縫 sew (#1563), 逢 tryst (#2417), 蜂 bee (#2687), and 鋒 sword´s point (#2768), and it is clumsy to work bushes and walking legs into every story. ""Pointy"" works fairly well: the walking legs are stuck on top of the pointy part of the bush; and for this character: a summit is the pointy end of a mountain. Koohii #2 Upon reaching the summit of the mountain, I noticed my walking legs were all gouged up from walking through prickly bushes. Primitives summit, mountain, Segway, Macbeth, walking legs, bushes 峰(みね): peak, ridge Kunyomi: みね、ね Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 峰 (みね)"
bee Details Story Dictionary 蜂 bee Heisig's Insect . . . walking legs . . . bushes. Koohii #1 A bee is an insect with a pointy (see summit (#1562)) stinger. Koohii #2 The insect that interrupted our tryst (#2417) was a bee! Primitives bee, insect, Segway, Macbeth, walking legs, bushes 蜂蜜(はちみつ): honey Kunyomi: はち Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 蜂 (はち)	bee 蜂 画数13 1684 Details Story Dictionary 蜂 bee Heisig's Insect . . . walking legs . . . bushes. Koohii #1 A bee is an insect with a pointy (see summit (#1562)) stinger. Koohii #2 The insect that interrupted our tryst (#2417) was a bee! Primitives bee, insect, Segway, Macbeth, walking legs, bushes 蜂蜜(はちみつ): honey Kunyomi: はち Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 蜂 (はち)
sew Details Story Dictionary 縫 sew Heisig's Thread . . . walking legs . . . bushes . . . road. Koohii #1 Pointy primitive; with a pointy needle you sew a road (-------) of threads. Koohii #2 Good thing I brought some thread, cause I need to sew my pants that I tore up walking through the bushes (see summit (#1562)) before we hit the road to go back down the mountain. Primitives sew, thread, spiderman, tryst, Segway, Macbeth, walking legs, bushes, road 裁縫(さいほう): sewing 縫う(ぬう): sew Kunyomi: ぬ.う Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 縫う (ぬ.う)	sew 縫 画数16 1685 Details Story Dictionary 縫 sew Heisig's Thread . . . walking legs . . . bushes . . . road. Koohii #1 Pointy primitive; with a pointy needle you sew a road (-------) of threads. Koohii #2 Good thing I brought some thread, cause I need to sew my pants that I tore up walking through the bushes (see summit (#1562)) before we hit the road to go back down the mountain. Primitives sew, thread, spiderman, tryst, Segway, Macbeth, walking legs, bushes, road 裁縫(さいほう): sewing 縫う(ぬう): sew Kunyomi: ぬ.う Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 縫う (ぬ.う)
worship Details Story Dictionary 拝 worship Heisig's Fingers . . . bush . . . suspended from the ceiling. Koohii #1 I put my fingers together in worship of the bush that hangs from the ceiling -- that wonderful mistletoe which has gotten me kissed by many a girl. Koohii #2 Because I worship her, I only finger ONE BUSH, her´s, and no others! Primitives worship, finger, fingers, one, ceiling, bushes 崇拝(すうはい): worship, adoration, admiration, cult 拝啓(はいけい): Dear (so and so) 拝借(はいしゃく): borrowing 拝む(おがむ): worship, beg 拝見(はいけん): see, look Kunyomi: おが.む、おろが.む Onyomi: ハイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 拝む (おが.む)	worship 拝 画数8 1686 Details Story Dictionary 拝 worship Heisig's Fingers . . . bush . . . suspended from the ceiling. Koohii #1 I put my fingers together in worship of the bush that hangs from the ceiling -- that wonderful mistletoe which has gotten me kissed by many a girl. Koohii #2 Because I worship her, I only finger ONE BUSH, her´s, and no others! Primitives worship, finger, fingers, one, ceiling, bushes 崇拝(すうはい): worship, adoration, admiration, cult 拝啓(はいけい): Dear (so and so) 拝借(はいしゃく): borrowing 拝む(おがむ): worship, beg 拝見(はいけん): see, look Kunyomi: おが.む、おろが.む Onyomi: ハイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 拝む (おが.む)
longevity Details Story Dictionary 寿 longevity My Story Your *NO*se (ノ) has *3* (三) times the lifespan and longevity of *glue*. Koohii #1 In an attempt to increase a bush's longevity, an incompitent gardener glues all the leaves back on that have fallen off. Maybe he should have tried watering it instead. Koohii #2 This old China man glued shrubs to his body. The added intake of oxygen from the shrubs was, according to him, the secret of his longevity. Sometimes he would sit all day in meditation without moving, and the locals believed the old man had actually turned into a shrub ! Primitives longevity, bushes, glue 寿命(じゅみょう): life span Kunyomi: ことぶき、ことぶ.く、ことほ.ぐ Onyomi: ジュ、ス、シュウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 寿 (ことぶき)	longevity 寿 画数7 1687 Details Story Dictionary 寿 longevity My Story Your *NO*se (ノ) has *3* (三) times the lifespan and longevity of *glue*. Koohii #1 In an attempt to increase a bush's longevity, an incompitent gardener glues all the leaves back on that have fallen off. Maybe he should have tried watering it instead. Koohii #2 This old China man glued shrubs to his body. The added intake of oxygen from the shrubs was, according to him, the secret of his longevity. Sometimes he would sit all day in meditation without moving, and the locals believed the old man had actually turned into a shrub ! Primitives longevity, bushes, glue 寿命(じゅみょう): life span Kunyomi: ことぶき、ことぶ.く、ことほ.ぐ Onyomi: ジュ、ス、シュウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 寿 (ことぶき)
casting Details Story Dictionary 鋳 casting Heisig's Metal . . . longevity. As you probably guessed from the elements, the key word refers to the casting of metals. Koohii #1 We take a casting because metal will have much greater longevity than the original. Koohii #2 They made a metal casting of the Chinese man who glued shrubs to himself to increase his longevity. It´s now sold around the world as it´s thought that having one will increase your own longevity.. Primitives casting, metal, gold, longevity, bushes, glue Kunyomi: い.る Onyomi: チュウ、イ、シュ、シュウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鋳る (い.る)	casting 鋳 画数15 1688 Details Story Dictionary 鋳 casting Heisig's Metal . . . longevity. As you probably guessed from the elements, the key word refers to the casting of metals. Koohii #1 We take a casting because metal will have much greater longevity than the original. Koohii #2 They made a metal casting of the Chinese man who glued shrubs to himself to increase his longevity. It´s now sold around the world as it´s thought that having one will increase your own longevity.. Primitives casting, metal, gold, longevity, bushes, glue Kunyomi: い.る Onyomi: チュウ、イ、シュ、シュウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鋳る (い.る)
enroll Details Story Dictionary 籍 enroll Heisig's Bamboo . . . Christmas tree . . . once upon a time. Koohii #1 Japanese father enrolls his student in a well-rounded school: they teach eastern traditions (the way of the bamboo), western traditions (like Christmas trees), and also teach literature (once upon a time). Koohii #2 Once upon a time, in order to enroll in a Christian school you had to answer a series of questions to ensure that you were really Christian. For example, the principal might show you a picture of a Christmas tree and a picture of some bamboo and ask you which one is most suitable for decoration at Christmas time. Primitives enroll, bamboo, christmas tree, wood, once upon a time, storyteller 戸籍(こせき): census, family register 国籍(こくせき): nationality 書籍(しょせき): book, publication Kunyomi: Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	enroll 籍 画数20 1689 Details Story Dictionary 籍 enroll Heisig's Bamboo . . . Christmas tree . . . once upon a time. Koohii #1 Japanese father enrolls his student in a well-rounded school: they teach eastern traditions (the way of the bamboo), western traditions (like Christmas trees), and also teach literature (once upon a time). Koohii #2 Once upon a time, in order to enroll in a Christian school you had to answer a series of questions to ensure that you were really Christian. For example, the principal might show you a picture of a Christmas tree and a picture of some bamboo and ask you which one is most suitable for decoration at Christmas time. Primitives enroll, bamboo, christmas tree, wood, once upon a time, storyteller 戸籍(こせき): census, family register 国籍(こくせき): nationality 書籍(しょせき): book, publication Kunyomi: Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
springtime Details Story Dictionary 春 springtime My Story A more simple Primitive than bonsai: #3 people 三　＋　人# Springtime: #3 people# sitting enjoying the escape from winter, soaking in the #sun#. 3 Stooges frolic and play on a spring day. Koohii #1 In the springtime bonsai get plenty of sun. Koohii #2 When it´s springtime you can only leave the bonsai out when the sun has gone down. Their little leaves can´t handle too much heat. Primitives springtime, bonsai, sun, day 青春(せいしゅん): youth, springtime of life, adolescent 春(はる): spring Kunyomi: はる Onyomi: シュン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 春 (はる)	springtime 春 画数9 1690 Details Story Dictionary 春 springtime My Story A more simple Primitive than bonsai: #3 people 三　＋　人# Springtime: #3 people# sitting enjoying the escape from winter, soaking in the #sun#. 3 Stooges frolic and play on a spring day. Koohii #1 In the springtime bonsai get plenty of sun. Koohii #2 When it´s springtime you can only leave the bonsai out when the sun has gone down. Their little leaves can´t handle too much heat. Primitives springtime, bonsai, sun, day 青春(せいしゅん): youth, springtime of life, adolescent 春(はる): spring Kunyomi: はる Onyomi: シュン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 春 (はる)
camellia Details Story Dictionary 椿 camellia Heisig's Tree . . . springtime. Koohii #1 The tree of spring. Fact: Camellia are highly valued in Japan and elsewhere for their very early flowering, often among the first flowers to appear in the late winter [early spring?]. Koohii #2 Anyone who´s lived in Japan knows camellia are by far the first tree of spring to flower. And how can you miss those shockingly pink flowers! Primitives camellia, tree, wood, springtime, bonsai, sun, day Kunyomi: つばき Onyomi: チン、チュン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	camellia 椿 画数13 1691 Details Story Dictionary 椿 camellia Heisig's Tree . . . springtime. Koohii #1 The tree of spring. Fact: Camellia are highly valued in Japan and elsewhere for their very early flowering, often among the first flowers to appear in the late winter [early spring?]. Koohii #2 Anyone who´s lived in Japan knows camellia are by far the first tree of spring to flower. And how can you miss those shockingly pink flowers! Primitives camellia, tree, wood, springtime, bonsai, sun, day Kunyomi: つばき Onyomi: チン、チュン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
peaceful Details Story Dictionary 泰 peaceful Heisig's Bonsai . . . rice grains. Koohii #1 If you look into Japanese gardens they seem so peaceful - with their small bonsais and the white stones looking like rice grains. Koohii #2 Simplistic and peaceful life: A bonsai to trim and enough rice to eat...　RTK2:　タイ　泰国　たいこく (Thailand). Primitives peaceful, bonsai, grains of rice Kunyomi: Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	peaceful 泰 画数10 1692 Details Story Dictionary 泰 peaceful Heisig's Bonsai . . . rice grains. Koohii #1 If you look into Japanese gardens they seem so peaceful - with their small bonsais and the white stones looking like rice grains. Koohii #2 Simplistic and peaceful life: A bonsai to trim and enough rice to eat...　RTK2:　タイ　泰国　たいこく (Thailand). Primitives peaceful, bonsai, grains of rice Kunyomi: Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
play music Details Story Dictionary 奏 play music Heisig's Bonsai . . . heavens. Koohii #1 When you play music to them, your bonsai will grow like they are in heaven. Koohii #2 In heaven you are surrounded by bonsai trees (full-sized ones fall through the clouds) while you play music on your harp. I always have trouble remembering that the bonsai tree is on top, so think of them growing on top of the clouds. Primitives play music, bonsai, heavens 吹奏(すいそう): playing wind instruments 演奏(えんそう): musical performance Kunyomi: かな.でる Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 奏でる (かな.でる)	play music 奏 画数9 1693 Details Story Dictionary 奏 play music Heisig's Bonsai . . . heavens. Koohii #1 When you play music to them, your bonsai will grow like they are in heaven. Koohii #2 In heaven you are surrounded by bonsai trees (full-sized ones fall through the clouds) while you play music on your harp. I always have trouble remembering that the bonsai tree is on top, so think of them growing on top of the clouds. Primitives play music, bonsai, heavens 吹奏(すいそう): playing wind instruments 演奏(えんそう): musical performance Kunyomi: かな.でる Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 奏でる (かな.でる)
reality Details Story Dictionary 実 reality My Story [Crown + Bonsai (Master + animal legs)] In reality, *Crowned* men never stood a chance against the *bonsai* Koohii #1 Bonsais are grown in a house, away from the harsh reality of the real world where they wouldn´t survive. Koohii #2 On this rather boring ´big brother´ type reality show, they have locked up bonsai inside a house and everyone is watching them on TV 24x7. The viewers have to vote on which bonsai shall remain in the house and which one has to leave. Primitives reality, house, bonsai 真実(さな): truth, reality 実(じつ): truth, reality, sincerity, fidelity, kindness, faith, substance, essence 実業家(じつぎょうか): industrialist, businessman 実質(じっしつ): substance, essence 実情(じつじょう): real condition, actual circumstances, actual state of affairs 実践(じっせん): practice, put into practice 実態(じったい): truth, fact 実は(じつは): as a matter of fact, by the way 実費(じっぴ): actual expense, cost price 充実(じゅうじつ): fullness, completion, perfection, substantiality, enrichment 誠実(せいじつ): sincere, honest, faithful 切実(せつじつ): compelling, serious, severe, acute, earnest, pressing, urgent 忠実(ちゅうじつ): fidelity, faithfulness 確実(かくじつ): certainty, reliability, soundness 果実(かじつ): fruit, nut, berry 現実(げんじつ): reality 口実(こうじつ): excuse 事実(じじつ): fact, truth, reality 実感(じっかん): feelings (actual, true) 実験(じっけん): experiment 実現(じつげん): implementation, materialization, realization 実行(じっこう): practice, performance, realization, execution (e.g. program) 実際(じっさい): practical, actual condition, status quo 実施(じっし): enforcement, enact, put into practice, carry out, operation 実習(じっしゅう): practice, training 実績(じっせき): achievements, actual results 実に(じつに): indeed, truly, surely 実物(じつぶつ): real thing, original 実用(じつよう): practical use, utility 実力(じつりょく): merit, efficiency, arms, force 実例(じつれい): example, illustration 実(み): fruit, nut, seed, content, good result 実る(みのる): bear fruit, ripen Kunyomi: み、みの.る、まこと、まことに、みの、みち.る Onyomi: ジツ、シツ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 実 (み), 実る (みの.る)	reality 実 画数8 1694 Details Story Dictionary 実 reality My Story [Crown + Bonsai (Master + animal legs)] In reality, *Crowned* men never stood a chance against the *bonsai* Koohii #1 Bonsais are grown in a house, away from the harsh reality of the real world where they wouldn´t survive. Koohii #2 On this rather boring ´big brother´ type reality show, they have locked up bonsai inside a house and everyone is watching them on TV 24x7. The viewers have to vote on which bonsai shall remain in the house and which one has to leave. Primitives reality, house, bonsai 真実(さな): truth, reality 実(じつ): truth, reality, sincerity, fidelity, kindness, faith, substance, essence 実業家(じつぎょうか): industrialist, businessman 実質(じっしつ): substance, essence 実情(じつじょう): real condition, actual circumstances, actual state of affairs 実践(じっせん): practice, put into practice 実態(じったい): truth, fact 実は(じつは): as a matter of fact, by the way 実費(じっぴ): actual expense, cost price 充実(じゅうじつ): fullness, completion, perfection, substantiality, enrichment 誠実(せいじつ): sincere, honest, faithful 切実(せつじつ): compelling, serious, severe, acute, earnest, pressing, urgent 忠実(ちゅうじつ): fidelity, faithfulness 確実(かくじつ): certainty, reliability, soundness 果実(かじつ): fruit, nut, berry 現実(げんじつ): reality 口実(こうじつ): excuse 事実(じじつ): fact, truth, reality 実感(じっかん): feelings (actual, true) 実験(じっけん): experiment 実現(じつげん): implementation, materialization, realization 実行(じっこう): practice, performance, realization, execution (e.g. program) 実際(じっさい): practical, actual condition, status quo 実施(じっし): enforcement, enact, put into practice, carry out, operation 実習(じっしゅう): practice, training 実績(じっせき): achievements, actual results 実に(じつに): indeed, truly, surely 実物(じつぶつ): real thing, original 実用(じつよう): practical use, utility 実力(じつりょく): merit, efficiency, arms, force 実例(じつれい): example, illustration 実(み): fruit, nut, seed, content, good result 実る(みのる): bear fruit, ripen Kunyomi: み、みの.る、まこと、まことに、みの、みち.る Onyomi: ジツ、シツ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 実 (み), 実る (みの.る)
"dedicate Details Story Dictionary 奉 dedicate Heisig's Bonsai . . . cornstalk. Use a ritualistic, religious meaning. Koohii #1 To join the temple, you have to dedicate yourself to raising bonsai for enlightenment, and cornstalks for sustenance. Koohii #2 A Japanese farmer who was growing corn tried to dedicate himself to the god of corn (in the hope it would bring better harvests). He had a little room with prayer beads, incense, etc. One day he brought an offerand that he thought would please the god of corn : a bonsai - corn (a corn plant turned into a bonsai). The god was infuriated and yelled at him ""HOW DARE YOU TORTURE MY CORN IN SUCH WAYS!"". The End. Primitives observance, dedicate, bonsai, cornstalk 奉る(たてまつる): to offer, to present, to revere, to do respectfully 奉仕(ほうし): attendance, service Kunyomi: たてまつ.る、まつ.る、ほう.ずる Onyomi: ホウ、ブ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 奉納 (ほうのう), 奉仕 (ほうし), 信奉 (しんぽう), 奉る (たてまつ.る)"	"dedicate 奉 画数8 1695 Details Story Dictionary 奉 dedicate Heisig's Bonsai . . . cornstalk. Use a ritualistic, religious meaning. Koohii #1 To join the temple, you have to dedicate yourself to raising bonsai for enlightenment, and cornstalks for sustenance. Koohii #2 A Japanese farmer who was growing corn tried to dedicate himself to the god of corn (in the hope it would bring better harvests). He had a little room with prayer beads, incense, etc. One day he brought an offerand that he thought would please the god of corn : a bonsai - corn (a corn plant turned into a bonsai). The god was infuriated and yelled at him ""HOW DARE YOU TORTURE MY CORN IN SUCH WAYS!"". The End. Primitives observance, dedicate, bonsai, cornstalk 奉る(たてまつる): to offer, to present, to revere, to do respectfully 奉仕(ほうし): attendance, service Kunyomi: たてまつ.る、まつ.る、ほう.ずる Onyomi: ホウ、ブ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 奉納 (ほうのう), 奉仕 (ほうし), 信奉 (しんぽう), 奉る (たてまつ.る)"
stipend Details Story Dictionary 俸 stipend Heisig's Person . . . dedicate. Koohii #1 The stipend is given to the student-PERSON who has come to Japan DEDICATED to study. Koohii #2 People who are highly dedicated to their jobs get good salaries/stipends. Primitives stipend, person, observance, dedicate, bonsai, cornstalk Kunyomi: Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	stipend 俸 画数10 1696 Details Story Dictionary 俸 stipend Heisig's Person . . . dedicate. Koohii #1 The stipend is given to the student-PERSON who has come to Japan DEDICATED to study. Koohii #2 People who are highly dedicated to their jobs get good salaries/stipends. Primitives stipend, person, observance, dedicate, bonsai, cornstalk Kunyomi: Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"rod Details Story Dictionary 棒 rod Heisig's Tree . . . dedicate. Koohii #1 This wooden rod has one very simple dedication engraved on it: ""Spare the rod, spoil the child..."". Koohii #2 The wood from this tree is dedicated to making rods to flog naughty kids. Primitives rod, tree, wood, observance, dedicate, bonsai, cornstalk 鉄棒(かなぼう): iron rod, crowbar, horizontal bar (gymnastics) 棒(ぼう): pole, rod, stick 泥棒(どろぼう): robber Kunyomi: Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"rod 棒 画数12 1697 Details Story Dictionary 棒 rod Heisig's Tree . . . dedicate. Koohii #1 This wooden rod has one very simple dedication engraved on it: ""Spare the rod, spoil the child..."". Koohii #2 The wood from this tree is dedicated to making rods to flog naughty kids. Primitives rod, tree, wood, observance, dedicate, bonsai, cornstalk 鉄棒(かなぼう): iron rod, crowbar, horizontal bar (gymnastics) 棒(ぼう): pole, rod, stick 泥棒(どろぼう): robber Kunyomi: Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
discreet Details Story Dictionary 謹 discreet Heisig's Words . . . cabbage. Koohii #1 Muttering words of gratitude for a wonderful meal, I discreetly slipped my cabbage under the table for the dog. Koohii #2 Cabbage primitive: When a cabbage is growing up, you must put it in your mouth before it flowers, because that´s when it becomes bitter. Seriously, it´s called ´bolting´ or something. When you´re discreet, you try to make your words like a cabbage: well-layered, but in an unassuming way. Primitives discreet, say, words, keitai, mouth, cabbage, flowers, mouth, grow up Kunyomi: つつし.む Onyomi: キン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 謹む (つつし.む)	discreet 謹 画数17 1698 Details Story Dictionary 謹 discreet Heisig's Words . . . cabbage. Koohii #1 Muttering words of gratitude for a wonderful meal, I discreetly slipped my cabbage under the table for the dog. Koohii #2 Cabbage primitive: When a cabbage is growing up, you must put it in your mouth before it flowers, because that´s when it becomes bitter. Seriously, it´s called ´bolting´ or something. When you´re discreet, you try to make your words like a cabbage: well-layered, but in an unassuming way. Primitives discreet, say, words, keitai, mouth, cabbage, flowers, mouth, grow up Kunyomi: つつし.む Onyomi: キン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 謹む (つつし.む)
"trifle Details Story Dictionary 僅 trifle Heisig's Person . . . cabbage. Koohii #1 To a big guy like Mr. T, eating a whole cabbage at once is nothing. ""What? a cabbage? That's just a trifle, foo, where's the meat?"". Koohii #2 To MR.T swallowing a whole CABBAGE is no more than a TRIFLE. Primitives trifle, person, cabbage, flowers, mouth, grow up 僅(きん): a little, small quantity 僅か(わずか): only, merely, a little, small quantity Kunyomi: わずか Onyomi: キン、ゴン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 僅 (わずか)"	"trifle 僅 画数12 1699 Details Story Dictionary 僅 trifle Heisig's Person . . . cabbage. Koohii #1 To a big guy like Mr. T, eating a whole cabbage at once is nothing. ""What? a cabbage? That's just a trifle, foo, where's the meat?"". Koohii #2 To MR.T swallowing a whole CABBAGE is no more than a TRIFLE. Primitives trifle, person, cabbage, flowers, mouth, grow up 僅(きん): a little, small quantity 僅か(わずか): only, merely, a little, small quantity Kunyomi: わずか Onyomi: キン、ゴン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 僅 (わずか)"
diligence Details Story Dictionary 勤 diligence Heisig's Cabbage . . . muscle. Koohii #1 With enough diligence, Koreans can turn ordinary cabbage into powerful kimchi. Koohii #2 Growing cabbages takes muscle and diligence. Primitives diligence, cabbage, flowers, mouth, grow up, power, muscle, arnold 勤勉(きんべん): industry, diligence 勤務(きんむ): service, duty, work 勤労(きんろう): labor, exertion, diligent service 勤まる(つとまる): to be fit for, to be equal to, to function properly 勤め(つとめ): service, duty, business, Buddhist religious services 勤め先(つとめさき): place of work 転勤(てんきん): transfer, transmission 出勤(しゅっきん): going to work, at work 通勤(つうきん): commuting to work 勤める(つとめる): serve, fill a post, work (for), exert oneself, endeavor, be diligent, to play (the part of) Kunyomi: つと.める、-づと.め、つと.まる、いそ.しむ Onyomi: キン、ゴン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 勤務 (きんむ), 勤勉 (きんべん), 出勤 (しゅっきん), 勤まる (つと.まる), 勤める (つと.める)	diligence 勤 画数12 1700 Details Story Dictionary 勤 diligence Heisig's Cabbage . . . muscle. Koohii #1 With enough diligence, Koreans can turn ordinary cabbage into powerful kimchi. Koohii #2 Growing cabbages takes muscle and diligence. Primitives diligence, cabbage, flowers, mouth, grow up, power, muscle, arnold 勤勉(きんべん): industry, diligence 勤務(きんむ): service, duty, work 勤労(きんろう): labor, exertion, diligent service 勤まる(つとまる): to be fit for, to be equal to, to function properly 勤め(つとめ): service, duty, business, Buddhist religious services 勤め先(つとめさき): place of work 転勤(てんきん): transfer, transmission 出勤(しゅっきん): going to work, at work 通勤(つうきん): commuting to work 勤める(つとめる): serve, fill a post, work (for), exert oneself, endeavor, be diligent, to play (the part of) Kunyomi: つと.める、-づと.め、つと.まる、いそ.しむ Onyomi: キン、ゴン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 勤務 (きんむ), 勤勉 (きんべん), 出勤 (しゅっきん), 勤まる (つと.まる), 勤める (つと.める)
"Sino- Details Story Dictionary 漢 Sino- Heisig's Water . . . scarecrow. The key word has come to refer to things Chinese in general, including the kanji themselves (for which this character is used). Koohii #1 Sino- (Chinese) people had to put a lot of sweat/water into learning the kanji. For right-hand kanji primitive - The dumb Western husband of a Japanese woman buys her flowers to apologise, after he opened his big mouth and said ""kanji are a stupid writing system"".. Koohii #2 In the water between Japan and China, the Sino- side has put scarecrows in the water to try and keep the Japanese away. Primitives sino, water, water droplets, water pistol, scarecrow, flowers, mouth, husband 漢語(かんご): Chinese word, Sino-Japanese word 漢和(かんわ): Chinese-Japanese (e.g. dictionary) 漢字(かんじ): Chinese characters, kanji Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:"	"Sino- 漢 画数13 1701 Details Story Dictionary 漢 Sino- Heisig's Water . . . scarecrow. The key word has come to refer to things Chinese in general, including the kanji themselves (for which this character is used). Koohii #1 Sino- (Chinese) people had to put a lot of sweat/water into learning the kanji. For right-hand kanji primitive - The dumb Western husband of a Japanese woman buys her flowers to apologise, after he opened his big mouth and said ""kanji are a stupid writing system"".. Koohii #2 In the water between Japan and China, the Sino- side has put scarecrows in the water to try and keep the Japanese away. Primitives sino, water, water droplets, water pistol, scarecrow, flowers, mouth, husband 漢語(かんご): Chinese word, Sino-Japanese word 漢和(かんわ): Chinese-Japanese (e.g. dictionary) 漢字(かんじ): Chinese characters, kanji Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:"
"sigh Details Story Dictionary 嘆 sigh Heisig's Mouth . . . scarecrow. Koohii #1 A sigh escapes the mouth of the scarecrow, who laments: ""...if I only had a brain, I could learn kanji"". Koohii #2 I will let out a huge sigh of relief from my mouth when I learn the last kanji. Primitives sigh, mouth, scarecrow, flowers, mouth, husband 嘆く(なげく): to sigh, to lament, to grieve Kunyomi: なげ.く、なげ.かわしい Onyomi: タン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 嘆かわしい (なげ.かわしい), 嘆く (なげ.く)"	"sigh 嘆 画数13 1702 Details Story Dictionary 嘆 sigh Heisig's Mouth . . . scarecrow. Koohii #1 A sigh escapes the mouth of the scarecrow, who laments: ""...if I only had a brain, I could learn kanji"". Koohii #2 I will let out a huge sigh of relief from my mouth when I learn the last kanji. Primitives sigh, mouth, scarecrow, flowers, mouth, husband 嘆く(なげく): to sigh, to lament, to grieve Kunyomi: なげ.く、なげ.かわしい Onyomi: タン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 嘆かわしい (なげ.かわしい), 嘆く (なげ.く)"
difficult Details Story Dictionary 難 difficult Heisig's Scarecrow . . . turkey. Koohii #1 Learning Kanji is difficult for Turkeys. Koohii #2 It is difficult for a scarecrow to scare a turkey or else they would´ve been called scareturkeys. Primitives difficult, scarecrow, flowers, mouth, husband, turkey 有難う(ありがとう): Thank you 難い(かたい): difficult, hard 遭難(そうなん): disaster, shipwreck, accident 難(なん): difficulty, hardships, defect 避難(ひなん): taking refuge, finding shelter 非難(ひなん): blame, attack, criticism 無難(ぶなん): safety, security 有難い(ありがたい): grateful, thankful, welcome, appreciated 困難(こんなん): difficulty, distress 災難(さいなん): calamity, misfortune 盗難(とうなん): theft, robbery 難しい(むずかしい): difficult Kunyomi: かた.い、-がた.い、むずか.しい、むづか.しい、むつか.しい、-にく.い Onyomi: ナン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 難い (かた.い), 難しい (むずか.しい)	difficult 難 画数18 1703 Details Story Dictionary 難 difficult Heisig's Scarecrow . . . turkey. Koohii #1 Learning Kanji is difficult for Turkeys. Koohii #2 It is difficult for a scarecrow to scare a turkey or else they would´ve been called scareturkeys. Primitives difficult, scarecrow, flowers, mouth, husband, turkey 有難う(ありがとう): Thank you 難い(かたい): difficult, hard 遭難(そうなん): disaster, shipwreck, accident 難(なん): difficulty, hardships, defect 避難(ひなん): taking refuge, finding shelter 非難(ひなん): blame, attack, criticism 無難(ぶなん): safety, security 有難い(ありがたい): grateful, thankful, welcome, appreciated 困難(こんなん): difficulty, distress 災難(さいなん): calamity, misfortune 盗難(とうなん): theft, robbery 難しい(むずかしい): difficult Kunyomi: かた.い、-がた.い、むずか.しい、むづか.しい、むつか.しい、-にく.い Onyomi: ナン Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 難い (かた.い), 難しい (むずか.しい)
splendor Details Story Dictionary 華 splendor My Story 華やか = showy; brilliant; gorgeous; florid; gay 華々しい = brilliant; magnificent; spectacular Hint: Splendor in the Grass. Compare with 草. This is just a more splendid version of that kanji. It also has some cool flowers on top Koohii #1 The Queen of England taking a walk round a village: ´Excuse me, I couldn´t help noticing the splendour of the flowers in your garden. Simply splendid. Ten out of ten.´ The villager gruffly replies: ´No it ´aint. It´s all muck. An´ I´m gonna cut it all down and sell it to the farmer for silage.´. Koohii #2 (I'm substituting greenhouse for silage. It is also full of all types of plants, and the shape resembles the windows that cover the building to let in the light.) See the splendor of the roses filling the greenhouse, beauty atop a stem of needles (thorns). Primitives splendor, flowers, silage, ten, needle 華奢(かしゃ): luxury, pomp, delicate, slender, gorgeous 華美(かび): pomp, splendor, gaudiness 華々しい(はなばなしい): brilliant, magnificent, spectacular 華やか(はなやか): gay, showy, brilliant, gorgeous, florid 豪華(ごうか): wonderful, gorgeous, splendor, pomp, extravagance Kunyomi: はな Onyomi: カ、ケ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 華美 (かび), 繁華 (はんか), 栄華 (えいが), 華 (はな)	splendor 華 画数10 1704 Details Story Dictionary 華 splendor My Story 華やか = showy; brilliant; gorgeous; florid; gay 華々しい = brilliant; magnificent; spectacular Hint: Splendor in the Grass. Compare with 草. This is just a more splendid version of that kanji. It also has some cool flowers on top Koohii #1 The Queen of England taking a walk round a village: ´Excuse me, I couldn´t help noticing the splendour of the flowers in your garden. Simply splendid. Ten out of ten.´ The villager gruffly replies: ´No it ´aint. It´s all muck. An´ I´m gonna cut it all down and sell it to the farmer for silage.´. Koohii #2 (I'm substituting greenhouse for silage. It is also full of all types of plants, and the shape resembles the windows that cover the building to let in the light.) See the splendor of the roses filling the greenhouse, beauty atop a stem of needles (thorns). Primitives splendor, flowers, silage, ten, needle 華奢(かしゃ): luxury, pomp, delicate, slender, gorgeous 華美(かび): pomp, splendor, gaudiness 華々しい(はなばなしい): brilliant, magnificent, spectacular 華やか(はなやか): gay, showy, brilliant, gorgeous, florid 豪華(ごうか): wonderful, gorgeous, splendor, pomp, extravagance Kunyomi: はな Onyomi: カ、ケ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 華美 (かび), 繁華 (はんか), 栄華 (えいが), 華 (はな)
droop Details Story Dictionary 垂 droop Heisig's A drop of . . . silage . . . walking stick . . . floor. The character is written in the order of its elements. Koohii #1 The thousand head of cattle let their heads droop as they devour the silage (animal fodder) that is lying on the floor around them. Koohii #2 Even a drop of silage is enough to make an old man with a walking stick droop low down to the floor. (rgravina - fixed up order). Primitives droop, drop, silage, walking cane, stick, one, floor 垂れる(たれる): to hang, to droop, to drop, to lower, to pull down, to dangle, to sag, to drip, to ooze, to trickle, to leave behind (at death), to give, to confer 垂直(すいちょく): vertical, perpendicular Kunyomi: た.れる、た.らす、た.れ、-た.れ、なんなんと.す Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 垂らす (た.らす), 垂れる (た.れる)	droop 垂 画数8 1705 Details Story Dictionary 垂 droop Heisig's A drop of . . . silage . . . walking stick . . . floor. The character is written in the order of its elements. Koohii #1 The thousand head of cattle let their heads droop as they devour the silage (animal fodder) that is lying on the floor around them. Koohii #2 Even a drop of silage is enough to make an old man with a walking stick droop low down to the floor. (rgravina - fixed up order). Primitives droop, drop, silage, walking cane, stick, one, floor 垂れる(たれる): to hang, to droop, to drop, to lower, to pull down, to dangle, to sag, to drip, to ooze, to trickle, to leave behind (at death), to give, to confer 垂直(すいちょく): vertical, perpendicular Kunyomi: た.れる、た.らす、た.れ、-た.れ、なんなんと.す Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 垂らす (た.らす), 垂れる (た.れる)
saliva Details Story Dictionary 唾 saliva Heisig's Mouth . . . droop. Koohii #1 When some people are sleeping, their mouths droop open, and saliva drips out. Koohii #2 Saliva drools from a mouth that droops. つば. Primitives saliva, mouth, droop, drop, silage, one, floor 唾(つば): saliva, sputum Kunyomi: つば、つばき Onyomi: ダ、タ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 唾 (つば)	saliva 唾 画数11 1706 Details Story Dictionary 唾 saliva Heisig's Mouth . . . droop. Koohii #1 When some people are sleeping, their mouths droop open, and saliva drips out. Koohii #2 Saliva drools from a mouth that droops. つば. Primitives saliva, mouth, droop, drop, silage, one, floor 唾(つば): saliva, sputum Kunyomi: つば、つばき Onyomi: ダ、タ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 唾 (つば)
"drowsy Details Story Dictionary 睡 drowsy Heisig's Eyes . . . droop. Koohii #1 Our eyes droop when we are drowsy. Koohii #2 Hint : the eyes of Droopy Dog (see droop (#1582)). When you are drowsy you have ""droopy eyes"". That is, you have Droopy´s eyes! Primitives drowsy, eye, droop, drop, silage, walking cane, stick, one, floor 睡眠(すいみん): sleep Kunyomi: Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"drowsy 睡 画数13 1707 Details Story Dictionary 睡 drowsy Heisig's Eyes . . . droop. Koohii #1 Our eyes droop when we are drowsy. Koohii #2 Hint : the eyes of Droopy Dog (see droop (#1582)). When you are drowsy you have ""droopy eyes"". That is, you have Droopy´s eyes! Primitives drowsy, eye, droop, drop, silage, walking cane, stick, one, floor 睡眠(すいみん): sleep Kunyomi: Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
spindle Details Story Dictionary 錘 spindle Heisig's Metal . . . droop. Koohii #1 Wasn´t it a cursed spindle that Sleeping Beauty pricked her finger on? Therefore the spindle was the metal that caused her to droop and eventually sleep for 100 years. Koohii #2 Spindle: the needle that drops on an LP record player. This is made of metal. It droops. Viola. Primitives spindle, metal, gold, droop, drop, silage, walking cane, stick, one, floor Kunyomi: つむ、おもり Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 錘 (つむ)	spindle 錘 画数16 1708 Details Story Dictionary 錘 spindle Heisig's Metal . . . droop. Koohii #1 Wasn´t it a cursed spindle that Sleeping Beauty pricked her finger on? Therefore the spindle was the metal that caused her to droop and eventually sleep for 100 years. Koohii #2 Spindle: the needle that drops on an LP record player. This is made of metal. It droops. Viola. Primitives spindle, metal, gold, droop, drop, silage, walking cane, stick, one, floor Kunyomi: つむ、おもり Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 錘 (つむ)
ride Details Story Dictionary 乗 ride Heisig's The simplest way to remember this character is to find the sprig of wheat in it, hidden because it doubles up with one stroke of silage. Koohii #1 It´s a hay ride! You sit on piles of silage and everyone likes to imitate old-time farmers with a piece of wheat sticking out of their mouths. Koohii #2 [ride; power; multiplication; record; counter for vehicles; board; mount; join] In the near future, we hope to ride on biomass fueled vehicles. Good news for those who have wheat silage surplus. Primitives ride, wheat, cereal, silage 乗客(じょうかく): passenger 乗せる(のせる): to place on (something), to take on board, to give a ride, to let (one) take part, to impose on, to record, to mention, to load (luggage), to publish, to run (an ad) 乗っ取る(のっとる): to capture, to occupy, to usurp 乗り換え(のりかえ): transfer (trains buses etc.) 乗り込む(のりこむ): to board, to embark on, to get into (a car), to ship (passengers), to man (a ship), to help (someone) into, to march into, to enter 乗客(じょうきゃく): passenger 乗車(じょうしゃ): taking a train 乗換(のりかえ): transfer (trains, buses, etc.) 乗り換える(のりかえる): transfer 乗り物(のりもの): vehicle, vessel 乗る(のる): get on, get up on, ride in, be taken in, share in, join, feel like doing, be mentioned in, be in harmony with Kunyomi: の.る、-の.り、の.せる Onyomi: ジョウ、ショウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 乗せる (の.せる), 乗る (の.る)	ride 乗 画数9 1709 Details Story Dictionary 乗 ride Heisig's The simplest way to remember this character is to find the sprig of wheat in it, hidden because it doubles up with one stroke of silage. Koohii #1 It´s a hay ride! You sit on piles of silage and everyone likes to imitate old-time farmers with a piece of wheat sticking out of their mouths. Koohii #2 [ride; power; multiplication; record; counter for vehicles; board; mount; join] In the near future, we hope to ride on biomass fueled vehicles. Good news for those who have wheat silage surplus. Primitives ride, wheat, cereal, silage 乗客(じょうかく): passenger 乗せる(のせる): to place on (something), to take on board, to give a ride, to let (one) take part, to impose on, to record, to mention, to load (luggage), to publish, to run (an ad) 乗っ取る(のっとる): to capture, to occupy, to usurp 乗り換え(のりかえ): transfer (trains buses etc.) 乗り込む(のりこむ): to board, to embark on, to get into (a car), to ship (passengers), to man (a ship), to help (someone) into, to march into, to enter 乗客(じょうきゃく): passenger 乗車(じょうしゃ): taking a train 乗換(のりかえ): transfer (trains, buses, etc.) 乗り換える(のりかえる): transfer 乗り物(のりもの): vehicle, vessel 乗る(のる): get on, get up on, ride in, be taken in, share in, join, feel like doing, be mentioned in, be in harmony with Kunyomi: の.る、-の.り、の.せる Onyomi: ジョウ、ショウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 乗せる (の.せる), 乗る (の.る)
surplus Details Story Dictionary 剰 surplus Heisig's Ride . . . saber. Koohii #1 If you go for a ride and find a saber beside you, perhaps you got into an Army surplus jeep. Koohii #2 Remember the wheat we cut with scythes (farmer's equivalent of a saber) for profit (#906)?　Well, we harvested too much and have to use the surplus for silage. 過剰 (かじょう) : excess. Primitives surplus, ride, wheat, cereal, silage, sword, sabre, saber 過剰(かじょう): excess Kunyomi: あまつさえ、あま.り、あま.る Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	surplus 剰 画数11 1710 Details Story Dictionary 剰 surplus Heisig's Ride . . . saber. Koohii #1 If you go for a ride and find a saber beside you, perhaps you got into an Army surplus jeep. Koohii #2 Remember the wheat we cut with scythes (farmer's equivalent of a saber) for profit (#906)?　Well, we harvested too much and have to use the surplus for silage. 過剰 (かじょう) : excess. Primitives surplus, ride, wheat, cereal, silage, sword, sabre, saber 過剰(かじょう): excess Kunyomi: あまつさえ、あま.り、あま.る Onyomi: ジョウ Lesson: 40 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
now Details Story Dictionary 今 now Heisig's The final stroke of this kanji is a rare shape, which we have not met before and will only meet in this character and others that include it as a primitive. We are more accustomed to seeing it straightened out as part of other shapes - for instance, as the second stroke of mouth. If you need any help at all with this character, you may picture it as two hands of a clock pointing to what time it is now. The element above it, meeting, should easily relate to that image. * We shall use clock as the primitive meaning of this character, in line with the above explanation. Koohii #1 My MEETING is at 7- but that´s NOW! Koohii #2 (re: ruuku35) The meeting is not at quarter to seven but now! Primitives now, meeting, umbrella, one, 7 今更(いまさら): now, at this late hour 今日は(こんにちは): hello, good day (daytime greeting id) 今に(いまに): before long, even now 今にも(いまにも): at any time, soon 今回(こんかい): now, this time, lately 今後(こんご): from now on, hereafter 今日(こんにち): today 今夜(こんや): tonight 今度(こんど): next time 今(いま): this, now 今日(きょう): today, this day 今朝(けさ): this morning 今年(ことし): this year 今月(こんげつ): this month 今週(こんしゅう): this week 今晩(こんばん): tonight, this evening Kunyomi: いま Onyomi: コン、キン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 今後 (こんご), 今日 (きょう), 今朝 (けさ), 今年 (こんねん), 昨今 (さっこん), 今 (いま)	now 今 画数4 1711 Details Story Dictionary 今 now Heisig's The final stroke of this kanji is a rare shape, which we have not met before and will only meet in this character and others that include it as a primitive. We are more accustomed to seeing it straightened out as part of other shapes - for instance, as the second stroke of mouth. If you need any help at all with this character, you may picture it as two hands of a clock pointing to what time it is now. The element above it, meeting, should easily relate to that image. * We shall use clock as the primitive meaning of this character, in line with the above explanation. Koohii #1 My MEETING is at 7- but that´s NOW! Koohii #2 (re: ruuku35) The meeting is not at quarter to seven but now! Primitives now, meeting, umbrella, one, 7 今更(いまさら): now, at this late hour 今日は(こんにちは): hello, good day (daytime greeting id) 今に(いまに): before long, even now 今にも(いまにも): at any time, soon 今回(こんかい): now, this time, lately 今後(こんご): from now on, hereafter 今日(こんにち): today 今夜(こんや): tonight 今度(こんど): next time 今(いま): this, now 今日(きょう): today, this day 今朝(けさ): this morning 今年(ことし): this year 今月(こんげつ): this month 今週(こんしゅう): this week 今晩(こんばん): tonight, this evening Kunyomi: いま Onyomi: コン、キン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 今後 (こんご), 今日 (きょう), 今朝 (けさ), 今年 (こんねん), 昨今 (さっこん), 今 (いま)
include Details Story Dictionary 含 include Heisig's Clock . . . mouth. Koohii #1 This clock includes a mouth that will tell you what the time is now. Hearing impaired people have this kind of watches... now imagine them as a big mouth under the clock. Koohii #2 Batteries included with this clock. Open the mouth at the back and insert them after purchase. Primitives include, now, clock, mouth 含む(ふくむ): hold in the mouth, bear in mind, understand, cherish, harbor, contain, comprise, have, hold, include, embrace, be full of 含める(ふくめる): include, instruct, make one understand, put in one´s mouth Kunyomi: ふく.む、ふく.める Onyomi: ガン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 含む (ふく.む), 含める (ふく.める)	include 含 画数7 1712 Details Story Dictionary 含 include Heisig's Clock . . . mouth. Koohii #1 This clock includes a mouth that will tell you what the time is now. Hearing impaired people have this kind of watches... now imagine them as a big mouth under the clock. Koohii #2 Batteries included with this clock. Open the mouth at the back and insert them after purchase. Primitives include, now, clock, mouth 含む(ふくむ): hold in the mouth, bear in mind, understand, cherish, harbor, contain, comprise, have, hold, include, embrace, be full of 含める(ふくめる): include, instruct, make one understand, put in one´s mouth Kunyomi: ふく.む、ふく.める Onyomi: ガン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 含む (ふく.む), 含める (ふく.める)
covet Details Story Dictionary 貪 covet Heisig's Clock . . . shellfish. Koohii #1 Whatever you covet at the moment (now), can be bought with money. Well, _almost_ anything.... Koohii #2 One begins one's life coveting money. One ends one's life coveting time -- those precious seconds ticking away on the clock. Remember to always put time over money (in this kanji and in life). Kunyomi: むさぼ.る Onyomi: タン、 トン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	covet 貪 画数11 1713 Details Story Dictionary 貪 covet Heisig's Clock . . . shellfish. Koohii #1 Whatever you covet at the moment (now), can be bought with money. Well, _almost_ anything.... Koohii #2 One begins one's life coveting money. One ends one's life coveting time -- those precious seconds ticking away on the clock. Remember to always put time over money (in this kanji and in life). Kunyomi: むさぼ.る Onyomi: タン、 トン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
versify Details Story Dictionary 吟 versify Heisig's As we have already learned characters for poem (Frame 370), chant (Frame 21), and song (Frame 508), it is important to protect this key word with an image all its own. Its elements are the same as those above; only the position has changed: mouth . . . clock. Koohii #1 Versify this kanji as follows: Hickery dickery dock, the mouth ran by the clock. Koohii #2 To versify, words of rhythm needs to shoot out of your MOUTH with a CLOCK-like regularity. Primitives versify, mouth, now, clock 吟味(ぎんみ): testing, scrutiny, careful investigation Kunyomi: Onyomi: ギン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	versify 吟 画数7 1714 Details Story Dictionary 吟 versify Heisig's As we have already learned characters for poem (Frame 370), chant (Frame 21), and song (Frame 508), it is important to protect this key word with an image all its own. Its elements are the same as those above; only the position has changed: mouth . . . clock. Koohii #1 Versify this kanji as follows: Hickery dickery dock, the mouth ran by the clock. Koohii #2 To versify, words of rhythm needs to shoot out of your MOUTH with a CLOCK-like regularity. Primitives versify, mouth, now, clock 吟味(ぎんみ): testing, scrutiny, careful investigation Kunyomi: Onyomi: ギン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
wish Details Story Dictionary 念 wish My Story [Now {今} + heart {心}] What do you want to WISH for right *NOW* with all your *HEART* ? A wish is what your *heart* wants *now*. Koohii #1 Someone wishing from the bottom of their heart that the clock would stop. A mid-life crisis perhaps. Koohii #2 Remember in the Wizard of Oz when the tin man wished for a heart and the wizard gave him that dinky little clock instead? Primitives wish, now, clock, heart 概念(がいねん): general idea, concept, notion 念(ねん): sense, idea, thought, feeling, desire, concern, attention, care 無念(むねん): chagrin, regret 観念(かんねん): idea, notion, conception, sense (e.g. of duty), resignation, preparedness, acceptance 記念(きねん): commemoration, memory 残念(ざんねん): sorry Kunyomi: Onyomi: ネン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	wish 念 画数8 1715 Details Story Dictionary 念 wish My Story [Now {今} + heart {心}] What do you want to WISH for right *NOW* with all your *HEART* ? A wish is what your *heart* wants *now*. Koohii #1 Someone wishing from the bottom of their heart that the clock would stop. A mid-life crisis perhaps. Koohii #2 Remember in the Wizard of Oz when the tin man wished for a heart and the wizard gave him that dinky little clock instead? Primitives wish, now, clock, heart 概念(がいねん): general idea, concept, notion 念(ねん): sense, idea, thought, feeling, desire, concern, attention, care 無念(むねん): chagrin, regret 観念(かんねん): idea, notion, conception, sense (e.g. of duty), resignation, preparedness, acceptance 記念(きねん): commemoration, memory 残念(ざんねん): sorry Kunyomi: Onyomi: ネン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
wrench Details Story Dictionary 捻 wrench Heisig's This kanji does not refer to the tool but to the act of twisting. Its elements: fingers . . . wish. Koohii #1 Ever try WRENCHING a bolt with just your FINGERS? Trust me, you´ll WISH you had a wrench for WRENCHING to save your FINGERS. Koohii #2 I have an unfortunate habit of wrenching off other people’s fingers when I pull a wishbone with them. Primitives wrenching, finger, fingers, wish, wishbone, now, clock, heart 捻子(ねじ): screw, helix, spiral 捻じれる(ねじれる): to twist, to wrench, to screw 捻る(ひねる): turn (a switch) on or off, twist, puzzle over Kunyomi: ね.じる、ねじ.る、ひね.くる、ひね.る Onyomi: ネン、ジョウ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	wrench 捻 画数11 1716 Details Story Dictionary 捻 wrench Heisig's This kanji does not refer to the tool but to the act of twisting. Its elements: fingers . . . wish. Koohii #1 Ever try WRENCHING a bolt with just your FINGERS? Trust me, you´ll WISH you had a wrench for WRENCHING to save your FINGERS. Koohii #2 I have an unfortunate habit of wrenching off other people’s fingers when I pull a wishbone with them. Primitives wrenching, finger, fingers, wish, wishbone, now, clock, heart 捻子(ねじ): screw, helix, spiral 捻じれる(ねじれる): to twist, to wrench, to screw 捻る(ひねる): turn (a switch) on or off, twist, puzzle over Kunyomi: ね.じる、ねじ.る、ひね.くる、ひね.る Onyomi: ネン、ジョウ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
"harp Details Story Dictionary 琴 harp Heisig's A pair of jewels . . . clock. Koohii #1 Two kings were fighting over a beautiful koto (harp). So they had a clock built into it that would measure how long each one played it. That way they could be sure none played it more than othe other. Koohii #2 Jesus is coming soon. Prepare to meet the king of kings now. Practice your harp playing skills all future angels!...　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　キン　琴線　きんせん(""heart strings""). Primitives harp, king, jewel, ball, now, clock, king2, jewel2, ball2 琴(こと): koto (Japanese harp) Kunyomi: こと Onyomi: キン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 琴 (こと)"	"harp 琴 画数12 1717 Details Story Dictionary 琴 harp Heisig's A pair of jewels . . . clock. Koohii #1 Two kings were fighting over a beautiful koto (harp). So they had a clock built into it that would measure how long each one played it. That way they could be sure none played it more than othe other. Koohii #2 Jesus is coming soon. Prepare to meet the king of kings now. Practice your harp playing skills all future angels!...　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　キン　琴線　きんせん(""heart strings""). Primitives harp, king, jewel, ball, now, clock, king2, jewel2, ball2 琴(こと): koto (Japanese harp) Kunyomi: こと Onyomi: キン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 琴 (こと)"
shade Details Story Dictionary 陰 shade Heisig's Just as the sunshine (Frame 1397) represents the masculine principle in nature (Yang), the shade stands for the feminine principle (Yin). Its elements are: pinnacle . . . clock . . . rising cloud. Koohii #1 There are three types of shade: 1. natural (a high pinnacle), 2. man-made buildings (a clock tower), 3. meteorological (a cloud). Koohii #2 Frosty the snowman is running around the pinnacle, staying in the shade. As he looks at his clock to see how much longer he can last, small clouds rise (steam) from his body. Nooo, Frosty! Primitives shade, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, now, clock, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall 陰気(いんき): gloom, melancholy 日陰(ひかげ): shadow 陰(かげ): shade, shadow, other side Kunyomi: かげ、かげ.る Onyomi: イン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 陰 (かげ), 陰る (かげ.る)	shade 陰 画数11 1718 Details Story Dictionary 陰 shade Heisig's Just as the sunshine (Frame 1397) represents the masculine principle in nature (Yang), the shade stands for the feminine principle (Yin). Its elements are: pinnacle . . . clock . . . rising cloud. Koohii #1 There are three types of shade: 1. natural (a high pinnacle), 2. man-made buildings (a clock tower), 3. meteorological (a cloud). Koohii #2 Frosty the snowman is running around the pinnacle, staying in the shade. As he looks at his clock to see how much longer he can last, small clouds rise (steam) from his body. Nooo, Frosty! Primitives shade, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, now, clock, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall 陰気(いんき): gloom, melancholy 日陰(ひかげ): shadow 陰(かげ): shade, shadow, other side Kunyomi: かげ、かげ.る Onyomi: イン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 陰 (かげ), 陰る (かげ.る)
beforehand Details Story Dictionary 予 beforehand My Story Beforehand, Your *MA* *nailed* me hard Koohii #1 Beforehand, this was a halberd but I cut it short so it could be for hand to hand combat. Koohii #2 Your halberd doesn´t have a handguard? You should have thought of that beforehand (i.e., before you were missing your hand). Primitives beforehand, halberd with stroke missing 予め(あらかじめ): beforehand, in advance, previously 予言(かねごと): prediction, promise, prognostication 予感(よかん): presentiment, premonition 予想(よそう): expectation, anticipation, prediction, forecast 予期(よき): expectation, assume will happen, forecast 予算(よさん): estimate, budget 予測(よそく): prediction, estimation 予備(よび): preparation, preliminaries, reserve, spare 予報(よほう): forecast, prediction 予防(よぼう): prevention, precaution, protection against 天気予報(てんきよほう): weather forecast 予習(よしゅう): preparation 予定(よてい): plan 予約(よやく): reservation Kunyomi: あらかじ.め Onyomi: ヨ、シャ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	beforehand 予 画数4 1719 Details Story Dictionary 予 beforehand My Story Beforehand, Your *MA* *nailed* me hard Koohii #1 Beforehand, this was a halberd but I cut it short so it could be for hand to hand combat. Koohii #2 Your halberd doesn´t have a handguard? You should have thought of that beforehand (i.e., before you were missing your hand). Primitives beforehand, halberd with stroke missing 予め(あらかじめ): beforehand, in advance, previously 予言(かねごと): prediction, promise, prognostication 予感(よかん): presentiment, premonition 予想(よそう): expectation, anticipation, prediction, forecast 予期(よき): expectation, assume will happen, forecast 予算(よさん): estimate, budget 予測(よそく): prediction, estimation 予備(よび): preparation, preliminaries, reserve, spare 予報(よほう): forecast, prediction 予防(よぼう): prevention, precaution, protection against 天気予報(てんきよほう): weather forecast 予習(よしゅう): preparation 予定(よてい): plan 予約(よやく): reservation Kunyomi: あらかじ.め Onyomi: ヨ、シャ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
"preface Details Story Dictionary 序 preface Heisig's Cave . . . beforehand. Koohii #1 The preface to all human history was written beforehand in caves. Koohii #2 Rename the ""beforehand"" part to be glove (because you have to wear gloves beforehand if you want to wield the halberd, which is why this primitive is an incomplete halberd). The story: a winter morning. A textbook author is holed up in his tiny office, a veritable cave. He wants to start his masterpiece textbook by first writing the preface. But he can´t get started. He sits and stares at empty paper until evening. It gets cold and he puts on gloves, shivering, but still unable to start his preface. Primitives preface, cave, beforehand 秩序(ちつじょ): order, regularity, system, method 順序(じゅんじょ): order, sequence, procedure Kunyomi: つい.で、ついで Onyomi: ジョ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"preface 序 画数7 1720 Details Story Dictionary 序 preface Heisig's Cave . . . beforehand. Koohii #1 The preface to all human history was written beforehand in caves. Koohii #2 Rename the ""beforehand"" part to be glove (because you have to wear gloves beforehand if you want to wield the halberd, which is why this primitive is an incomplete halberd). The story: a winter morning. A textbook author is holed up in his tiny office, a veritable cave. He wants to start his masterpiece textbook by first writing the preface. But he can´t get started. He sits and stares at empty paper until evening. It gets cold and he puts on gloves, shivering, but still unable to start his preface. Primitives preface, cave, beforehand 秩序(ちつじょ): order, regularity, system, method 順序(じゅんじょ): order, sequence, procedure Kunyomi: つい.で、ついで Onyomi: ジョ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
deposit Details Story Dictionary 預 deposit Heisig's Beforehand . . . head. Koohii #1 Depositing money into your savings account is something you do beforehand if you use your head. If you´re in Japan your passbook says 預金機（よきんき）when you make a deposit. Koohii #2 You bang your head on the ATM, wishing you´d deposited some money beforehand. Primitives deposit, beforehand, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 預金(よきん): deposit, bank account 預かる(あずかる): take charge of, receive deposit 預ける(あずける): put in charge of, to deposit Kunyomi: あず.ける、あず.かる Onyomi: ヨ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 預かる (あず.かる), 預ける (あず.ける)	deposit 預 画数13 1721 Details Story Dictionary 預 deposit Heisig's Beforehand . . . head. Koohii #1 Depositing money into your savings account is something you do beforehand if you use your head. If you´re in Japan your passbook says 預金機（よきんき）when you make a deposit. Koohii #2 You bang your head on the ATM, wishing you´d deposited some money beforehand. Primitives deposit, beforehand, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 預金(よきん): deposit, bank account 預かる(あずかる): take charge of, receive deposit 預ける(あずける): put in charge of, to deposit Kunyomi: あず.ける、あず.かる Onyomi: ヨ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 預かる (あず.かる), 預ける (あず.ける)
plains Details Story Dictionary 野 plains Heisig's This character refers to rustic life and rustic fields primarily, and from there gets derived meanings. Its elements: computer. . beforehand. Koohii #1 These days we all work in front of computers. Beforehand we all worked out in the fields, in the plains. Koohii #2 The plains are a challenging place to get any work done. Be sure you recharge your computer´s battery beforehand, or you won´t get anything done. Primitives plains, computer, beforehand 視野(しや): field of vision, outlook 野外(やがい): fields, outskirts, open air, suburbs 野心(やしん): ambition, aspiration, designs, treachery 野生(やせい): wild 野党(やとう): opposition party 野(の): field 分野(ぶんや): field, sphere, realm, division, branch 平野(へいや): plain, open field 野菜(やさい): vegetable Kunyomi: の、の- Onyomi: ヤ、ショ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 野 (の)	plains 野 画数11 1722 Details Story Dictionary 野 plains Heisig's This character refers to rustic life and rustic fields primarily, and from there gets derived meanings. Its elements: computer. . beforehand. Koohii #1 These days we all work in front of computers. Beforehand we all worked out in the fields, in the plains. Koohii #2 The plains are a challenging place to get any work done. Be sure you recharge your computer´s battery beforehand, or you won´t get anything done. Primitives plains, computer, beforehand 視野(しや): field of vision, outlook 野外(やがい): fields, outskirts, open air, suburbs 野心(やしん): ambition, aspiration, designs, treachery 野生(やせい): wild 野党(やとう): opposition party 野(の): field 分野(ぶんや): field, sphere, realm, division, branch 平野(へいや): plain, open field 野菜(やさい): vegetable Kunyomi: の、の- Onyomi: ヤ、ショ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 野 (の)
concurrently Details Story Dictionary 兼 concurrently My Story The *horny one* and his *fork* are concurrently flexing their トs backwards and forwards Koohii #1 Our ninja hero, disguised as a gardener with a rake, is suddenly attacked from both left and right concurrently by bulls with animal horns. Our hero lets out a blood-curdling scream and tears his rake handle vertically in half, so he now has two wooden staffs (split rake handle) to fight with. He grips each staff (left side and right side) and rams it into the horns of the charging bulls. The force of each charging bull causes the tips of each staff to split again (split bottom of each rake handle). Koohii #2 You decide to take the bull by the horns and do both chores concurrently, grabbing your double-handled rake before attempting to clean up both your´s and your neighbours´ garden. But unfortunately, it´s not long until your rake splits in two. Primitives concurrently, animal horns, rake, stick, stick2 兼ねて(かねて): simultaneously 気兼ね(きがね): hesitance, diffidence, feeling constraint, fear of troubling someone, having scruples about doing something 兼用(けんよう): multi-use, combined use, combination, serving two purposes 兼業(けんぎょう): side line, second business 兼ねる(かねる): hold (position), serve, be unable, be beyond one´s ability, cannot, hesitate to, combine with, use with, be impatient Kunyomi: か.ねる、-か.ねる Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 兼ねる (か.ねる)	concurrently 兼 画数10 1723 Details Story Dictionary 兼 concurrently My Story The *horny one* and his *fork* are concurrently flexing their トs backwards and forwards Koohii #1 Our ninja hero, disguised as a gardener with a rake, is suddenly attacked from both left and right concurrently by bulls with animal horns. Our hero lets out a blood-curdling scream and tears his rake handle vertically in half, so he now has two wooden staffs (split rake handle) to fight with. He grips each staff (left side and right side) and rams it into the horns of the charging bulls. The force of each charging bull causes the tips of each staff to split again (split bottom of each rake handle). Koohii #2 You decide to take the bull by the horns and do both chores concurrently, grabbing your double-handled rake before attempting to clean up both your´s and your neighbours´ garden. But unfortunately, it´s not long until your rake splits in two. Primitives concurrently, animal horns, rake, stick, stick2 兼ねて(かねて): simultaneously 気兼ね(きがね): hesitance, diffidence, feeling constraint, fear of troubling someone, having scruples about doing something 兼用(けんよう): multi-use, combined use, combination, serving two purposes 兼業(けんぎょう): side line, second business 兼ねる(かねる): hold (position), serve, be unable, be beyond one´s ability, cannot, hesitate to, combine with, use with, be impatient Kunyomi: か.ねる、-か.ねる Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 兼ねる (か.ねる)
dislike Details Story Dictionary 嫌 dislike Heisig's Woman . . . concurrently. Koohii #1 Naturally, if you´re dating more than one woman concurrently, they will certainly dislike each other! Koohii #2 Attempting to court two women concurrently will make them both dislike you. Primitives dislike, woman, concurrently, animal horns, rake 嫌がる(いやがる): hate, dislike 機嫌(きげん): humour, temper, mood 嫌う(きらう): hate, dislike, loathe 好き嫌い(すききらい): likes and dislikes, taste 嫌(いや): disagreeable, detestable, unpleasant, reluctant 嫌い(きらい): dislike, hate Kunyomi: きら.う、きら.い、いや Onyomi: ケン、ゲン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 嫌悪 (けんお), 嫌疑 (けんぎ), 嫌 (いや), 嫌う (きら.う)	dislike 嫌 画数13 1724 Details Story Dictionary 嫌 dislike Heisig's Woman . . . concurrently. Koohii #1 Naturally, if you´re dating more than one woman concurrently, they will certainly dislike each other! Koohii #2 Attempting to court two women concurrently will make them both dislike you. Primitives dislike, woman, concurrently, animal horns, rake 嫌がる(いやがる): hate, dislike 機嫌(きげん): humour, temper, mood 嫌う(きらう): hate, dislike, loathe 好き嫌い(すききらい): likes and dislikes, taste 嫌(いや): disagreeable, detestable, unpleasant, reluctant 嫌い(きらい): dislike, hate Kunyomi: きら.う、きら.い、いや Onyomi: ケン、ゲン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 嫌悪 (けんお), 嫌疑 (けんぎ), 嫌 (いや), 嫌う (きら.う)
sickle Details Story Dictionary 鎌 sickle Heisig's Metal . . . concurrently. Koohii #1 This is a special sickle with metal blades on both sides. It can cut many things concurrently! Koohii #2 The gold sickle of the USSR flag represents both leaders and workers laboring concurrently. Primitives sickle, metal, gold, concurrently, animal horns, rake Kunyomi: かま Onyomi: レン、ケン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鎌 (かま)	sickle 鎌 画数18 1725 Details Story Dictionary 鎌 sickle Heisig's Metal . . . concurrently. Koohii #1 This is a special sickle with metal blades on both sides. It can cut many things concurrently! Koohii #2 The gold sickle of the USSR flag represents both leaders and workers laboring concurrently. Primitives sickle, metal, gold, concurrently, animal horns, rake Kunyomi: かま Onyomi: レン、ケン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鎌 (かま)
self-effacing Details Story Dictionary 謙 self-effacing Heisig's Words . . . concurrently. Koohii #1 When you are self-effacing you use words to concurrently bring yourself down and make yourself look better. Koohii #2 Though the man´s words were self-effacing, his actions concurrently made it clear that his modesty was false. Primitives self-effacing, say, words, keitai, mouth, concurrently, animal horns, rake 謙る(へりくだる): to deprecate oneself and praise the listener 謙虚(けんきょ): modesty, humility 謙遜(けんそん): humble, humility, modesty Kunyomi: Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	self-effacing 謙 画数17 1726 Details Story Dictionary 謙 self-effacing Heisig's Words . . . concurrently. Koohii #1 When you are self-effacing you use words to concurrently bring yourself down and make yourself look better. Koohii #2 Though the man´s words were self-effacing, his actions concurrently made it clear that his modesty was false. Primitives self-effacing, say, words, keitai, mouth, concurrently, animal horns, rake 謙る(へりくだる): to deprecate oneself and praise the listener 謙虚(けんきょ): modesty, humility 謙遜(けんそん): humble, humility, modesty Kunyomi: Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"bargain Details Story Dictionary 廉 bargain Heisig's Cave . . . concurrently. Koohii #1 Stores don´t want you to know it, but if you find the secret cave, they run bargains there concurrently to their regular prices. (Image: pulling a certain level in a store to find the ""bargain cave). Koohii #2 If you have several sellers competing concurrently, one will cave in and give you a bargain…　RTK2:　レン　廉売　れんばい(bargain)…　MIXED GROUP: 鎌1599　(ｹﾝ): 兼1597　嫌1598　謙1600. Primitives bargain, cave, concurrently, animal horns, rake Kunyomi: Onyomi: レン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"bargain 廉 画数13 1727 Details Story Dictionary 廉 bargain Heisig's Cave . . . concurrently. Koohii #1 Stores don´t want you to know it, but if you find the secret cave, they run bargains there concurrently to their regular prices. (Image: pulling a certain level in a store to find the ""bargain cave). Koohii #2 If you have several sellers competing concurrently, one will cave in and give you a bargain…　RTK2:　レン　廉売　れんばい(bargain)…　MIXED GROUP: 鎌1599　(ｹﾝ): 兼1597　嫌1598　謙1600. Primitives bargain, cave, concurrently, animal horns, rake Kunyomi: Onyomi: レン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
west Details Story Dictionary 西 west Heisig's To our way of counting directions, the west always comes fourth. So it is convenient to find the character for four in this kanji. But since we want only one of the four directions, the west adds the one at the top and sucks the human legs a bit out of their mouth in the process. * As a primitive, the meaning of west can be expanded to refer to the Old West of cowboy-movie fame, just as the meaning of the character for east was expanded into the East. Note, however, that in its primitive form the legs are straightened out and reach down to the bottom of the mouth. Hence, we get the shape ⻃. With the exception of one kanji, given in the following frame, this element always appears at the top of its relative primitives. Koohii #1 The old west represented by a completely empty whiskey bottle (compare sign of the bird (#1427) whiskey bottle about one third full). Koohii #2 Note: this kanji is also used to denote Spain. Primitives west, one, four 西日(にしび): westering sun 関西(かんさい): Kansai (SW half of Japan, including Osaka) 西暦(せいれき): Christian Era, Anno Domini (A.D.) 東西(とうざい): East and West, Orient and Occident, whole country, Your attention, please! 西洋(せいよう): West, Western countries 西(にし): west Kunyomi: にし Onyomi: セイ、サイ、ス Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 西暦 (せいれき), 西部 (せいぶ), 北西 (ほくせい), 西 (にし)	west 西 画数6 1728 Details Story Dictionary 西 west Heisig's To our way of counting directions, the west always comes fourth. So it is convenient to find the character for four in this kanji. But since we want only one of the four directions, the west adds the one at the top and sucks the human legs a bit out of their mouth in the process. * As a primitive, the meaning of west can be expanded to refer to the Old West of cowboy-movie fame, just as the meaning of the character for east was expanded into the East. Note, however, that in its primitive form the legs are straightened out and reach down to the bottom of the mouth. Hence, we get the shape ⻃. With the exception of one kanji, given in the following frame, this element always appears at the top of its relative primitives. Koohii #1 The old west represented by a completely empty whiskey bottle (compare sign of the bird (#1427) whiskey bottle about one third full). Koohii #2 Note: this kanji is also used to denote Spain. Primitives west, one, four 西日(にしび): westering sun 関西(かんさい): Kansai (SW half of Japan, including Osaka) 西暦(せいれき): Christian Era, Anno Domini (A.D.) 東西(とうざい): East and West, Orient and Occident, whole country, Your attention, please! 西洋(せいよう): West, Western countries 西(にし): west Kunyomi: にし Onyomi: セイ、サイ、ス Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 西暦 (せいれき), 西部 (せいぶ), 北西 (ほくせい), 西 (にし)
"value Details Story Dictionary 価 value Heisig's Person . . . Old West. Koohii #1 In the West, people have no value. Only money is important. Koohii #2 What might it mean for a person in the old west to be of value? Their face is on a ""Wanted!"" poster, of course. Imagine the reward... Primitives value, person, old west 価格(かかく): price, value, cost 価値(かち): value, worth, merit 高価(こうか): high price 定価(ていか): established price 評価(ひょうか): valuation, estimation, assessment, evaluation 物価(ぶっか): prices of commodities, prices (in general), cost-of-living Kunyomi: あたい Onyomi: カ、ケ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 価 (あたい)"	"value 価 画数8 1729 Details Story Dictionary 価 value Heisig's Person . . . Old West. Koohii #1 In the West, people have no value. Only money is important. Koohii #2 What might it mean for a person in the old west to be of value? Their face is on a ""Wanted!"" poster, of course. Imagine the reward... Primitives value, person, old west 価格(かかく): price, value, cost 価値(かち): value, worth, merit 高価(こうか): high price 定価(ていか): established price 評価(ひょうか): valuation, estimation, assessment, evaluation 物価(ぶっか): prices of commodities, prices (in general), cost-of-living Kunyomi: あたい Onyomi: カ、ケ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 価 (あたい)"
need Details Story Dictionary 要 need My Story The Old West needed -- really, really needed- more women. Koohii #1 (ヨウ) When Clint needs a woman, he likes to be on top. Koohii #2 In some movie with the theme of the Old West, the population of a town finds themselve in dire need of women, after all of the town´s womens became crazy and started gunshooting and participating in duels and such. Primitives need, old west, woman 要因(よういん): primary factor, main cause 要する(ようする): to demand, to require, to take 要請(ようせい): claim, demand, request, application 要望(ようぼう): demand for, request 重要(じゅうよう): important, momentous, essential, principal, major 主要(しゅよう): chief, main, principal, major 需要(じゅよう): demand, request 要求(ようきゅう): request, demand, requisition 要旨(ようし): gist, essentials, summary, fundamentals 要するに(ようするに): in a word, after all, the point is ..., in short ... 要素(ようそ): element 要点(ようてん): gist, main point 要領(ようりょう): point, gist, essentials, outline 必要(ひつよう): necessary 要る(いる): need Kunyomi: い.る Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 要る (い.る)	need 要 画数9 1730 Details Story Dictionary 要 need My Story The Old West needed -- really, really needed- more women. Koohii #1 (ヨウ) When Clint needs a woman, he likes to be on top. Koohii #2 In some movie with the theme of the Old West, the population of a town finds themselve in dire need of women, after all of the town´s womens became crazy and started gunshooting and participating in duels and such. Primitives need, old west, woman 要因(よういん): primary factor, main cause 要する(ようする): to demand, to require, to take 要請(ようせい): claim, demand, request, application 要望(ようぼう): demand for, request 重要(じゅうよう): important, momentous, essential, principal, major 主要(しゅよう): chief, main, principal, major 需要(じゅよう): demand, request 要求(ようきゅう): request, demand, requisition 要旨(ようし): gist, essentials, summary, fundamentals 要するに(ようするに): in a word, after all, the point is ..., in short ... 要素(ようそ): element 要点(ようてん): gist, main point 要領(ようりょう): point, gist, essentials, outline 必要(ひつよう): necessary 要る(いる): need Kunyomi: い.る Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 要る (い.る)
"loins Details Story Dictionary 腰 loins Heisig's Part of the body . . . need. Koohii #1 If you want to get closer to the actual meaning, then I think that 腰(こし) is more like the hips or the small of the back. After being sat down in the office too long, people often say 腰がいたい！It´s the part of the body that needs massaging. Koohii #2 To the puritans reading this site - please stop reporting stories that have anything to do with sex! Although (as wrightak said) this kanji really refers to the hips, Heisig clearly chose the keyword ´loins´ because it was anatomically close enough, and the primitives lent themselves to an easy-to-remember story. Just because you´re all sexually repressed doesn´t mean other people won´t benefit from a story such as ""the part of the body people need more than any other are the loins"". Primitives loins, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, need, old west, woman 腰(こし): hip 腰掛け(こしかけ): seat, bench 腰掛ける(こしかける): sit (down) Kunyomi: こし Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 腰 (こし)"	"loins 腰 画数13 1731 Details Story Dictionary 腰 loins Heisig's Part of the body . . . need. Koohii #1 If you want to get closer to the actual meaning, then I think that 腰(こし) is more like the hips or the small of the back. After being sat down in the office too long, people often say 腰がいたい！It´s the part of the body that needs massaging. Koohii #2 To the puritans reading this site - please stop reporting stories that have anything to do with sex! Although (as wrightak said) this kanji really refers to the hips, Heisig clearly chose the keyword ´loins´ because it was anatomically close enough, and the primitives lent themselves to an easy-to-remember story. Just because you´re all sexually repressed doesn´t mean other people won´t benefit from a story such as ""the part of the body people need more than any other are the loins"". Primitives loins, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, need, old west, woman 腰(こし): hip 腰掛け(こしかけ): seat, bench 腰掛ける(こしかける): sit (down) Kunyomi: こし Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 腰 (こし)"
ballot Details Story Dictionary 票 ballot Heisig's Old West . . . altar. Koohii #1 In the Old West there were no ballot boxes. Afraid of fraud and fighting among the gunslingers, the ballots were posted into a slot in the top of the local church altar instead. They may have been rough, but the cowboys wouldn´t fight in the church. Koohii #2 In western political elections (US), peoples ballots will often depend on religion and at which altar the prospective president prays. Primitives ballot, old west, altar, show, two, small 票(ひょう): label, ballot, ticket, sign 投票(とうひょう): voting, poll Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヒョウ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	ballot 票 画数11 1732 Details Story Dictionary 票 ballot Heisig's Old West . . . altar. Koohii #1 In the Old West there were no ballot boxes. Afraid of fraud and fighting among the gunslingers, the ballots were posted into a slot in the top of the local church altar instead. They may have been rough, but the cowboys wouldn´t fight in the church. Koohii #2 In western political elections (US), peoples ballots will often depend on religion and at which altar the prospective president prays. Primitives ballot, old west, altar, show, two, small 票(ひょう): label, ballot, ticket, sign 投票(とうひょう): voting, poll Kunyomi: Onyomi: ヒョウ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
drift Details Story Dictionary 漂 drift Heisig's Water . . . ballot. Koohii #1 In Florida, Bush through Kerry´s ballots into the water, watching them drift away and setting the whole country adrift. Koohii #2 The political fanatic stole all the ballots and dumped them in the stream. He calmly watched them drift away as the cops came to a screech behind him. Primitives drift, water, water droplets, water pistol, ballot, old west, altar, show, two, small 漂う(ただよう): to drift about, to float, to hang in air Kunyomi: ただよ.う Onyomi: ヒョウ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 漂う (ただよ.う)	drift 漂 画数14 1733 Details Story Dictionary 漂 drift Heisig's Water . . . ballot. Koohii #1 In Florida, Bush through Kerry´s ballots into the water, watching them drift away and setting the whole country adrift. Koohii #2 The political fanatic stole all the ballots and dumped them in the stream. He calmly watched them drift away as the cops came to a screech behind him. Primitives drift, water, water droplets, water pistol, ballot, old west, altar, show, two, small 漂う(ただよう): to drift about, to float, to hang in air Kunyomi: ただよ.う Onyomi: ヒョウ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 漂う (ただよ.う)
"signpost Details Story Dictionary 標 signpost Heisig's Tree . . . ballot. Koohii #1 Trees were frequenly used as signposts in those days, indicating where one had to go to cast their ballots. Koohii #2 Large wooden signposts are planted on peoples lawns, with the faces of their representatives all saying: ""Vote [1] Me!"" for the upcoming ballot. Primitives signpost, tree, wood, ballot, old west, altar, show, two, small 座標(ざひょう): coordinate(s) 標語(ひょうご): motto, slogan, catchword 標識(ひょうしき): sign, mark 標準(ひょうじゅん): standard, level 標本(ひょうほん): example, specimen 目標(もくひょう): mark, objective, target Kunyomi: しるべ、しるし Onyomi: ヒョウ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"signpost 標 画数15 1734 Details Story Dictionary 標 signpost Heisig's Tree . . . ballot. Koohii #1 Trees were frequenly used as signposts in those days, indicating where one had to go to cast their ballots. Koohii #2 Large wooden signposts are planted on peoples lawns, with the faces of their representatives all saying: ""Vote [1] Me!"" for the upcoming ballot. Primitives signpost, tree, wood, ballot, old west, altar, show, two, small 座標(ざひょう): coordinate(s) 標語(ひょうご): motto, slogan, catchword 標識(ひょうしき): sign, mark 標準(ひょうじゅん): standard, level 標本(ひょうほん): example, specimen 目標(もくひょう): mark, objective, target Kunyomi: しるべ、しるし Onyomi: ヒョウ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
chestnut Details Story Dictionary 栗 chestnut Heisig's Old West . . . tree. Koohii #1 Chestnut tree, west nut tree. Koohii #2 The cowboy climbed the tree to see where they were in the woods. The poor guy chose a chestnut tree. ouch ouch. Primitives chestnut, old west, tree, wood Kunyomi: くり、おののく Onyomi: リツ、リ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	chestnut 栗 画数10 1735 Details Story Dictionary 栗 chestnut Heisig's Old West . . . tree. Koohii #1 Chestnut tree, west nut tree. Koohii #2 The cowboy climbed the tree to see where they were in the woods. The poor guy chose a chestnut tree. ouch ouch. Primitives chestnut, old west, tree, wood Kunyomi: くり、おののく Onyomi: リツ、リ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
shudder Details Story Dictionary 慄 shudder Heisig's State of mind . . . chestnut. Koohii #1 Shudder. If chestnut trees were sentient, shudder would be their state of mind as the tree shaker approaches. Note: Tree shakers are used commercially to harvest nuts and cider apples. A tree shaker makes a tree shudder causing all the ripe chestnuts to fall. Koohii #2 shudder: You’re in the state of mind of shuddering with fear when the chestnut tree is falling over towards you. Kunyomi: おそ.れる、 おのの.く、 ふる.える Onyomi: リツ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	shudder 慄 画数13 1736 Details Story Dictionary 慄 shudder Heisig's State of mind . . . chestnut. Koohii #1 Shudder. If chestnut trees were sentient, shudder would be their state of mind as the tree shaker approaches. Note: Tree shakers are used commercially to harvest nuts and cider apples. A tree shaker makes a tree shudder causing all the ripe chestnuts to fall. Koohii #2 shudder: You’re in the state of mind of shuddering with fear when the chestnut tree is falling over towards you. Kunyomi: おそ.れる、 おのの.く、 ふる.える Onyomi: リツ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
transition Details Story Dictionary 遷 transition Heisig's West . . . St. Bernard dog . . . snake . . . road. Koohii #1 Since the days of the Old West, traveling has transitioned from trying not to step on big snakes to driving on big roads. Koohii #2 The west has gone through quite a transition, gone are the days when dogs and snakes roamed the desert, it´s all roads and casinos now. Primitives transition, old west, large, St. Bernard, snake, self, road 変遷(へんせん): change, transition, vicissitudes Kunyomi: うつ.る、うつ.す、みやこがえ Onyomi: セン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	transition 遷 画数15 1737 Details Story Dictionary 遷 transition Heisig's West . . . St. Bernard dog . . . snake . . . road. Koohii #1 Since the days of the Old West, traveling has transitioned from trying not to step on big snakes to driving on big roads. Koohii #2 The west has gone through quite a transition, gone are the days when dogs and snakes roamed the desert, it´s all roads and casinos now. Primitives transition, old west, large, St. Bernard, snake, self, road 変遷(へんせん): change, transition, vicissitudes Kunyomi: うつ.る、うつ.す、みやこがえ Onyomi: セン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
capsize Details Story Dictionary 覆 capsize Heisig's West . . . restore. Koohii #1 The U.S.S. Old West has capsized, and all the cowboys on board are trying to restore her upright. Koohii #2 Remember Oregon Trail? Remember how you had to float your wagon across rivers to get to the Old West? Well, sometimes that wagon capsizes. Once that happens you´d better quickly head to the nearest town to restore. Primitives capsize, old west, restore, Nelson, column, going, line, fold back, double back, reclining, lying down, sun, day, walking legs 覆す(くつがえす): to overturn, to upset, to overthrow, to undermine 覆面(ふくめん): mask, veil, disguise 覆う(おおう): cover, hide, conceal, wrap, disguise Kunyomi: おお.う、くつがえ.す、くつがえ.る Onyomi: フク Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 覆う (おお.う), 覆す (くつがえ.す), 覆る (くつがえ.る)	capsize 覆 画数18 1738 Details Story Dictionary 覆 capsize Heisig's West . . . restore. Koohii #1 The U.S.S. Old West has capsized, and all the cowboys on board are trying to restore her upright. Koohii #2 Remember Oregon Trail? Remember how you had to float your wagon across rivers to get to the Old West? Well, sometimes that wagon capsizes. Once that happens you´d better quickly head to the nearest town to restore. Primitives capsize, old west, restore, Nelson, column, going, line, fold back, double back, reclining, lying down, sun, day, walking legs 覆す(くつがえす): to overturn, to upset, to overthrow, to undermine 覆面(ふくめん): mask, veil, disguise 覆う(おおう): cover, hide, conceal, wrap, disguise Kunyomi: おお.う、くつがえ.す、くつがえ.る Onyomi: フク Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 覆う (おお.う), 覆す (くつがえ.す), 覆る (くつがえ.る)
"smoke Details Story Dictionary 煙 smoke Heisig's Hearth . . . Old West . . . ground. Koohii #1 In the Old West, they used to light fires in the ground to make smoke signals. Koohii #2 Should be easy. SMOKE brings to mind ""Where there´s SMOKE, there´s FIRE"". So, the FIRE in the OLD WEST can tell people we´re you´re at, so put out the FIRE with SOIL to keep the SMOKE to a minimum. Primitives smoke, hearth fire, old west, soil, dirt, ground 煙たい(けむたい): smoky, feeling awkward 煙る(けむる): to smoke (e.g. fire) 煙草(たばこ): (pt:) (n) (uk) tobacco (pt: tabaco), cigarettes 煙突(えんとつ): chimney 禁煙(きんえん): No Smoking! 煙い(けむい): smoky 煙(けむり): smoke, fumes Kunyomi: けむ.る、けむり、けむ.い Onyomi: エン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 煙い (けむ.い), 煙る (けむ.る), 煙 (けむり)"	"smoke 煙 画数13 1739 Details Story Dictionary 煙 smoke Heisig's Hearth . . . Old West . . . ground. Koohii #1 In the Old West, they used to light fires in the ground to make smoke signals. Koohii #2 Should be easy. SMOKE brings to mind ""Where there´s SMOKE, there´s FIRE"". So, the FIRE in the OLD WEST can tell people we´re you´re at, so put out the FIRE with SOIL to keep the SMOKE to a minimum. Primitives smoke, hearth fire, old west, soil, dirt, ground 煙たい(けむたい): smoky, feeling awkward 煙る(けむる): to smoke (e.g. fire) 煙草(たばこ): (pt:) (n) (uk) tobacco (pt: tabaco), cigarettes 煙突(えんとつ): chimney 禁煙(きんえん): No Smoking! 煙い(けむい): smoky 煙(けむり): smoke, fumes Kunyomi: けむ.る、けむり、けむ.い Onyomi: エン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 煙い (けむ.い), 煙る (けむ.る), 煙 (けむり)"
"south Details Story Dictionary 南 south Heisig's Belt . . . happiness. Note how the belt runs through the middle of happiness. Koohii #1 South of my belt leads to happiness. Koohii #2 In the south (Southern Alabama, Southern Africa, picture any south, but choose one and stick with it) ""they measure happyness by the belt"". If someone has a larger belly (and a longer belt), it is believed they are well fed and thus are happy. Primitives south, ten, needle, belt, happiness, ten, needle, stand up, vase, ten2, needle2 南(なん): south 南極(なんきょく): south pole, Antarctic 南米(なんべい): South America 南北(なんぼく): south and north 南(みなみ): South, proceeding south Kunyomi: みなみ Onyomi: ナン、ナ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 南北 (なんぼく), 南端 (なんたん), 指南 (しなん), 南 (みなみ)"	"south 南 画数9 1740 Details Story Dictionary 南 south Heisig's Belt . . . happiness. Note how the belt runs through the middle of happiness. Koohii #1 South of my belt leads to happiness. Koohii #2 In the south (Southern Alabama, Southern Africa, picture any south, but choose one and stick with it) ""they measure happyness by the belt"". If someone has a larger belly (and a longer belt), it is believed they are well fed and thus are happy. Primitives south, ten, needle, belt, happiness, ten, needle, stand up, vase, ten2, needle2 南(なん): south 南極(なんきょく): south pole, Antarctic 南米(なんべい): South America 南北(なんぼく): south and north 南(みなみ): South, proceeding south Kunyomi: みなみ Onyomi: ナン、ナ Lesson: 41 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 南北 (なんぼく), 南端 (なんたん), 指南 (しなん), 南 (みなみ)"
camphor tree Details Story Dictionary 楠 camphor tree Heisig's Tree . . . south. Koohii #1 We traveled to southern Japan just to see a camphor tree. It´s what we came for. Koohii #2 Trivia: Cinnamomum camphora is native to Taiwan, southern Japan, southeast China and Indochina,. Primitives camphor tree, tree, wood, south, ten, needle, belt, happiness, ten, needle, stand up, vase, ten2, needle2 Kunyomi: くす、くすのき Onyomi: ナン、ダン、ゼン、ネン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	camphor tree 楠 画数13 1741 Details Story Dictionary 楠 camphor tree Heisig's Tree . . . south. Koohii #1 We traveled to southern Japan just to see a camphor tree. It´s what we came for. Koohii #2 Trivia: Cinnamomum camphora is native to Taiwan, southern Japan, southeast China and Indochina,. Primitives camphor tree, tree, wood, south, ten, needle, belt, happiness, ten, needle, stand up, vase, ten2, needle2 Kunyomi: くす、くすのき Onyomi: ナン、ダン、ゼン、ネン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
offering Details Story Dictionary 献 offering Heisig's South . . . chihuahua. Koohii #1 A South Korean street vendor is offering chihuahu snacks. Koohii #2 If you go to someones place and the food sucks, you lower it down south of the table as an offering to their dog. Primitives offering, south, ten, needle, belt, happiness, ten, needle, stand up, vase, chihuahua, dog, large, drop, ten2, needle2 貢献(こうけん): contribution, services 献立(こんだて): menu, program, schedule 文献(ぶんけん): literature, books (reference) Kunyomi: たてまつ.る Onyomi: ケン、コン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 献上 (けんじょう), 献身的 (けんしんてき), 文献 (ぶんけん)	offering 献 画数13 1742 Details Story Dictionary 献 offering Heisig's South . . . chihuahua. Koohii #1 A South Korean street vendor is offering chihuahu snacks. Koohii #2 If you go to someones place and the food sucks, you lower it down south of the table as an offering to their dog. Primitives offering, south, ten, needle, belt, happiness, ten, needle, stand up, vase, chihuahua, dog, large, drop, ten2, needle2 貢献(こうけん): contribution, services 献立(こんだて): menu, program, schedule 文献(ぶんけん): literature, books (reference) Kunyomi: たてまつ.る Onyomi: ケン、コン Lesson: 41 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 献上 (けんじょう), 献身的 (けんしんてき), 文献 (ぶんけん)
"gates Details Story Dictionary 門 gates Heisig's The pictograph of two swinging gates is so clear in this kanji that only its stroke order needs to be memorized. In case you should have any trouble, though, you might doodle with the shapes on a piece of paper, taking care to note the difference in the stroke order of the two facing doors. The gates usually serve as an enclosure, and are written BEFORE whatever it is they enclose. * As a primitive, we shall continue to give it the meaning of gates, but recommend the image of swinging doors (like the kind once common at entrances to saloons) to distinguish it from the primitive for door. Koohii #1 Heisig´s stroke order in the 4th edition (and earlier) is wrong, so be careful -- first is the left-most vertical stroke, then draw the rest of the ""sun"" attachment as you would normally. In fact, if you just wrote it out as two suns with elongated sides, you´ll get the stroke order exactly correct. Koohii #2 The gates to Hell. guarded by Cerebus or ... Bill Gates? Primitives gates 門(かど): gate 正門(せいもん): main gate, main entrance 部門(ぶもん): class, group, category, department, field, branch 門(もん): gate Kunyomi: かど、と Onyomi: モン Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 門 (かど)"	"gates 門 画数8 1743 Details Story Dictionary 門 gates Heisig's The pictograph of two swinging gates is so clear in this kanji that only its stroke order needs to be memorized. In case you should have any trouble, though, you might doodle with the shapes on a piece of paper, taking care to note the difference in the stroke order of the two facing doors. The gates usually serve as an enclosure, and are written BEFORE whatever it is they enclose. * As a primitive, we shall continue to give it the meaning of gates, but recommend the image of swinging doors (like the kind once common at entrances to saloons) to distinguish it from the primitive for door. Koohii #1 Heisig´s stroke order in the 4th edition (and earlier) is wrong, so be careful -- first is the left-most vertical stroke, then draw the rest of the ""sun"" attachment as you would normally. In fact, if you just wrote it out as two suns with elongated sides, you´ll get the stroke order exactly correct. Koohii #2 The gates to Hell. guarded by Cerebus or ... Bill Gates? Primitives gates 門(かど): gate 正門(せいもん): main gate, main entrance 部門(ぶもん): class, group, category, department, field, branch 門(もん): gate Kunyomi: かど、と Onyomi: モン Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 門 (かど)"
"question Details Story Dictionary 問 question Heisig's Gates . . . mouth. Koohii #1 A mouth on the Gates of Hell says ""Answer me these questions three, or thru the gates ye soon will be"". Koohii #2 Hark! Who goes there? is the expected question from the mouth of the guard at the gate…　　　RTK2:　モン　質問　しつもん(question). Primitives question, gates, mouth 問い合わせる(といあわせる): to enquire, to seek information 問屋(といや): wholesale store 問う(とう): to ask, to question, to charge (i.e. with a crime), to accuse, without regard to (neg) 問(もん): problem, question 学問(がくもん): scholarship, study, learning 疑問(ぎもん): question, problem, doubt, guess 問い(とい): question, query 問い合わせ(といあわせ): enquiry 訪問(ほうもん): call, visit 問答(もんどう): questions and answers, dialogue 質問(しつもん): question, inquiry 問題(もんだい): problem, question Kunyomi: と.う、と.い、とん Onyomi: モン Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 問い (と.い), 問う (と.う)"	"question 問 画数11 1744 Details Story Dictionary 問 question Heisig's Gates . . . mouth. Koohii #1 A mouth on the Gates of Hell says ""Answer me these questions three, or thru the gates ye soon will be"". Koohii #2 Hark! Who goes there? is the expected question from the mouth of the guard at the gate…　　　RTK2:　モン　質問　しつもん(question). Primitives question, gates, mouth 問い合わせる(といあわせる): to enquire, to seek information 問屋(といや): wholesale store 問う(とう): to ask, to question, to charge (i.e. with a crime), to accuse, without regard to (neg) 問(もん): problem, question 学問(がくもん): scholarship, study, learning 疑問(ぎもん): question, problem, doubt, guess 問い(とい): question, query 問い合わせ(といあわせ): enquiry 訪問(ほうもん): call, visit 問答(もんどう): questions and answers, dialogue 質問(しつもん): question, inquiry 問題(もんだい): problem, question Kunyomi: と.う、と.い、とん Onyomi: モン Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 問い (と.い), 問う (と.う)"
review Details Story Dictionary 閲 review Heisig's Gates . . . devil. Keep the connotation of this key word distinct from those of inspection (Frame 1174), revise (Frame 362), and perusal (Frame 919). Koohii #1 A little devil at the gates of hell reviews your record to see if you´re evil enough to get in. Koohii #2 As I was reviewing for my exam at a quiet saloon, the devil popped out of nowhere and offered to make sure I pass. But I told him no way, since that´s cheating. Besides, I´m just reviewing things I already know. I won´t fail. But he kept insisting, so I kicked him and sent him crashing through the entrance gates. Primitives review, gates, devil, horns, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs 閲覧(えつらん): inspection, reading Kunyomi: けみ.する Onyomi: エツ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	review 閲 画数15 1745 Details Story Dictionary 閲 review Heisig's Gates . . . devil. Keep the connotation of this key word distinct from those of inspection (Frame 1174), revise (Frame 362), and perusal (Frame 919). Koohii #1 A little devil at the gates of hell reviews your record to see if you´re evil enough to get in. Koohii #2 As I was reviewing for my exam at a quiet saloon, the devil popped out of nowhere and offered to make sure I pass. But I told him no way, since that´s cheating. Besides, I´m just reviewing things I already know. I won´t fail. But he kept insisting, so I kicked him and sent him crashing through the entrance gates. Primitives review, gates, devil, horns, elder brother, teenager, mouth, human legs 閲覧(えつらん): inspection, reading Kunyomi: けみ.する Onyomi: エツ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
clique Details Story Dictionary 閥 clique Heisig's Gates . . . fell. Koohii #1 You only get through the gates into that person's fiesta if you are in the same clique. Koohii #2 The felled souls of the world, cut down like trees, pass through the gates of hell and join the clique. Primitives clique, gates, fell, person, fiesta Kunyomi: Onyomi: バツ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	clique 閥 画数14 1746 Details Story Dictionary 閥 clique Heisig's Gates . . . fell. Koohii #1 You only get through the gates into that person's fiesta if you are in the same clique. Koohii #2 The felled souls of the world, cut down like trees, pass through the gates of hell and join the clique. Primitives clique, gates, fell, person, fiesta Kunyomi: Onyomi: バツ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
interval Details Story Dictionary 間 interval Heisig's Gates . . . sun/day. This interval applies to time and space alike, but the latter is better for creating an image. Koohii #1 The interval between star systems (suns) was too large, so the stargates were created to travel between them. Koohii #2 We open the gates at regular intervals to let a bit of sun in. Primitives interval, gates, sun, day 間柄(あいだがら): relation(ship) 合間(あいま): interval 空間(あきま): vacancy, room for rent or lease 何時の間にか(いつのまにか): before one knows, unnoticed, unawares 区間(くかん): section (of track etc) この間(このあいだ): the other day, lately, recently 週間(しゅうかん): week, weekly 茶の間(ちゃのま): living room (Japanese style) 昼間(ちゅうかん): daytime, during the day 束の間(つかのま): moment, brief time, brief, transient 間違う(まちがう): to make a mistake, to be incorrect, to be mistaken 間に合う(まにあう): to be in time (for) 間々(まま): occasionally, frequently 間もなく(まもなく): soon, before long, in a short time 間(あいだ): space, interval 居間(いま): living room (Western style) 貸間(かしま): room to let 間隔(かんかく): space, interval 間接(かんせつ): indirectness 期間(きかん): period, term 客間(きゃくま): parlor, guest room 時間割(じかんわり): timetable, schedule 瞬間(しゅんかん): moment, second, instant 隙間(すきま): crevice, crack, gap, opening 世間(せけん): world, society 中間(ちゅうかん): middle, midway, interim 手間(てま): time, labour 床の間(とこのま): alcove 仲間(なかま): company, fellow, colleague, associate, comrade, mate, group, circle of friends, partner 人間(にんげん): human being, man, person 年間(ねんかん): year (interval of time) 間(ま): space, room, time, pause 間違い(まちがい): mistake 民間(みんかん): private, civilian, civil, popular, folk, unofficial 夜間(やかん): at night, nighttime 昼間(ひるま): daytime, during the daytime 間違える(まちがえる): make a mistake 時間(じかん): time Kunyomi: あいだ、ま、あい Onyomi: カン、ケン Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 間隔 (かんかく), 中間 (ちゅうかん), 時間 (じかん), 間 (あいだ), 間 (ま)	interval 間 画数12 1747 Details Story Dictionary 間 interval Heisig's Gates . . . sun/day. This interval applies to time and space alike, but the latter is better for creating an image. Koohii #1 The interval between star systems (suns) was too large, so the stargates were created to travel between them. Koohii #2 We open the gates at regular intervals to let a bit of sun in. Primitives interval, gates, sun, day 間柄(あいだがら): relation(ship) 合間(あいま): interval 空間(あきま): vacancy, room for rent or lease 何時の間にか(いつのまにか): before one knows, unnoticed, unawares 区間(くかん): section (of track etc) この間(このあいだ): the other day, lately, recently 週間(しゅうかん): week, weekly 茶の間(ちゃのま): living room (Japanese style) 昼間(ちゅうかん): daytime, during the day 束の間(つかのま): moment, brief time, brief, transient 間違う(まちがう): to make a mistake, to be incorrect, to be mistaken 間に合う(まにあう): to be in time (for) 間々(まま): occasionally, frequently 間もなく(まもなく): soon, before long, in a short time 間(あいだ): space, interval 居間(いま): living room (Western style) 貸間(かしま): room to let 間隔(かんかく): space, interval 間接(かんせつ): indirectness 期間(きかん): period, term 客間(きゃくま): parlor, guest room 時間割(じかんわり): timetable, schedule 瞬間(しゅんかん): moment, second, instant 隙間(すきま): crevice, crack, gap, opening 世間(せけん): world, society 中間(ちゅうかん): middle, midway, interim 手間(てま): time, labour 床の間(とこのま): alcove 仲間(なかま): company, fellow, colleague, associate, comrade, mate, group, circle of friends, partner 人間(にんげん): human being, man, person 年間(ねんかん): year (interval of time) 間(ま): space, room, time, pause 間違い(まちがい): mistake 民間(みんかん): private, civilian, civil, popular, folk, unofficial 夜間(やかん): at night, nighttime 昼間(ひるま): daytime, during the daytime 間違える(まちがえる): make a mistake 時間(じかん): time Kunyomi: あいだ、ま、あい Onyomi: カン、ケン Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 間隔 (かんかく), 中間 (ちゅうかん), 時間 (じかん), 間 (あいだ), 間 (ま)
pitch dark Details Story Dictionary 闇 pitch dark Heisig's Gates . . . sound. Koohii #1 I like to think of a horror movie where the protagonists enter a graveyard when suddenly their flashlights go out and it becomes pitch dark, whereupon they hear the sound of the gate creaking shut behind them. Koohii #2 Through the gates of hell there is no sound, no light, its all pitch dark. Primitives pitch dark, gates, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day 無闇に(むやみに): unreasonably, absurdly, recklessly, indiscreetly, at random 闇(やみ): darkness, the dark, black-marketeering, dark, shady, illegal Kunyomi: やみ、くら.い Onyomi: アン、オン Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 闇 (やみ)	pitch dark 闇 画数17 1748 Details Story Dictionary 闇 pitch dark Heisig's Gates . . . sound. Koohii #1 I like to think of a horror movie where the protagonists enter a graveyard when suddenly their flashlights go out and it becomes pitch dark, whereupon they hear the sound of the gate creaking shut behind them. Koohii #2 Through the gates of hell there is no sound, no light, its all pitch dark. Primitives pitch dark, gates, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day 無闇に(むやみに): unreasonably, absurdly, recklessly, indiscreetly, at random 闇(やみ): darkness, the dark, black-marketeering, dark, shady, illegal Kunyomi: やみ、くら.い Onyomi: アン、オン Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 闇 (やみ)
simplicity Details Story Dictionary 簡 simplicity Heisig's Bamboo . . . interval. Koohii #1 [simplicity; brevity] The ししおどし is a bamboo device for scaring birds from the gates of your garden by clacking against a stone at regular intervals. Its design is simplicity itself. (Inspired by PepeSeco). Koohii #2 The simplicity of bamboo plant is in all its joints being at equal intervals. Primitives simplicity, bamboo, interval, gates, sun, day 簡易(かんい): simplicity, easiness, quasi- 簡潔(かんけつ): brevity, conciseness, simplicity 簡素(かんそ): simplicity, plain 簡単(かんたん): easy, simple Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	simplicity 簡 画数18 1749 Details Story Dictionary 簡 simplicity Heisig's Bamboo . . . interval. Koohii #1 [simplicity; brevity] The ししおどし is a bamboo device for scaring birds from the gates of your garden by clacking against a stone at regular intervals. Its design is simplicity itself. (Inspired by PepeSeco). Koohii #2 The simplicity of bamboo plant is in all its joints being at equal intervals. Primitives simplicity, bamboo, interval, gates, sun, day 簡易(かんい): simplicity, easiness, quasi- 簡潔(かんけつ): brevity, conciseness, simplicity 簡素(かんそ): simplicity, plain 簡単(かんたん): easy, simple Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
open Details Story Dictionary 開 open Heisig's Gates . . . two hands. Koohii #1 Sure you can squeeze through these gates by kicking them or pushing them with your body, but if you want to get them wide open, you need to do that with both your hands. Koohii #2 To open the gate, use your both hands. Primitives open, gates, two hands 開催(かいさい): holding a meeting, open an exhibition 開拓(かいたく): reclamation (of wasteland), cultivation, pioneer 開発(かいはつ): development, exploitation 公開(こうかい): presenting to the public 切開(せっかい): clearing (land), opening up, cutting through 打開(だかい): break in the deadlock 未開(みかい): savage land, backward region, uncivilized 開会(かいかい): opening of a meeting 開始(かいし): start, commencement, beginning 開通(かいつう): opening, open 開放(かいほう): open, throw open, liberalization 展開(てんかい): develop, expansion (opposite of compression) 開く(ひらく): to open 開く(あく): open (e.g. a festival) 開ける(あける): become opened up, be up-to-date, become civilized Kunyomi: ひら.く、ひら.き、-びら.き、ひら.ける、あ.く、あ.ける Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 開く (あ.く), 開ける (あ.ける), 開く (ひら.く), 開ける (ひら.ける)	open 開 画数12 1750 Details Story Dictionary 開 open Heisig's Gates . . . two hands. Koohii #1 Sure you can squeeze through these gates by kicking them or pushing them with your body, but if you want to get them wide open, you need to do that with both your hands. Koohii #2 To open the gate, use your both hands. Primitives open, gates, two hands 開催(かいさい): holding a meeting, open an exhibition 開拓(かいたく): reclamation (of wasteland), cultivation, pioneer 開発(かいはつ): development, exploitation 公開(こうかい): presenting to the public 切開(せっかい): clearing (land), opening up, cutting through 打開(だかい): break in the deadlock 未開(みかい): savage land, backward region, uncivilized 開会(かいかい): opening of a meeting 開始(かいし): start, commencement, beginning 開通(かいつう): opening, open 開放(かいほう): open, throw open, liberalization 展開(てんかい): develop, expansion (opposite of compression) 開く(ひらく): to open 開く(あく): open (e.g. a festival) 開ける(あける): become opened up, be up-to-date, become civilized Kunyomi: ひら.く、ひら.き、-びら.き、ひら.ける、あ.く、あ.ける Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 開く (あ.く), 開ける (あ.ける), 開く (ひら.く), 開ける (ひら.ける)
"closed Details Story Dictionary 閉 closed Heisig's Gates . . . genie. Koohii #1 The gates are too big to be closed by man. Only a genie can. ""Close sesame!"". Koohii #2 Alright none of you GENIUSES could figure out how the door is CLOSED, so I invented these. They are called the SALOON DOORS. With these, you don't need to. Primitives closed, gates, genie 閉口(へいこう): shut mouth 閉鎖(へいさ): closing, closure, shutdown, lockout, unsociable 閉じる(とじる): close (e.g. book, eyes, meeting, etc.), shut 閉会(へいかい): closure 閉まる(しまる): to close, become closed 閉める(しめる): to close, shut Kunyomi: と.じる、と.ざす、し.める、し.まる、た.てる Onyomi: ヘイ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 閉まる (し.まる), 閉める (し.める), 閉ざす (と.ざす), 閉じる (と.じる)"	"closed 閉 画数11 1751 Details Story Dictionary 閉 closed Heisig's Gates . . . genie. Koohii #1 The gates are too big to be closed by man. Only a genie can. ""Close sesame!"". Koohii #2 Alright none of you GENIUSES could figure out how the door is CLOSED, so I invented these. They are called the SALOON DOORS. With these, you don't need to. Primitives closed, gates, genie 閉口(へいこう): shut mouth 閉鎖(へいさ): closing, closure, shutdown, lockout, unsociable 閉じる(とじる): close (e.g. book, eyes, meeting, etc.), shut 閉会(へいかい): closure 閉まる(しまる): to close, become closed 閉める(しめる): to close, shut Kunyomi: と.じる、と.ざす、し.める、し.まる、た.てる Onyomi: ヘイ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 閉まる (し.まる), 閉める (し.める), 閉ざす (と.ざす), 閉じる (と.じる)"
"tower Details Story Dictionary 閣 tower Heisig's Gates . . . each. Koohii #1 To keep this distinct from other kanji such as ""watchtower"" and ""pagoda"", I use the mnemonic ""towering tower"". -- In some old 8-bit kung-fu videogame, with a plot similar as Bruce Lee´s last, unfinished movie, the hero must break through a gate at each level of the towering tower, fighting with opponents using various styles of kung-fu until he meets the finale at the topmost level of the ""towering tower"". Koohii #2 Remember the two towers from lord of the rings... each has it´s own - very difficult to master - entrance gate. Primitives tower, gates, each, walking legs, mouth 内閣(ないかく): cabinet, (government) ministry Kunyomi: Onyomi: カク Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"tower 閣 画数14 1752 Details Story Dictionary 閣 tower Heisig's Gates . . . each. Koohii #1 To keep this distinct from other kanji such as ""watchtower"" and ""pagoda"", I use the mnemonic ""towering tower"". -- In some old 8-bit kung-fu videogame, with a plot similar as Bruce Lee´s last, unfinished movie, the hero must break through a gate at each level of the towering tower, fighting with opponents using various styles of kung-fu until he meets the finale at the topmost level of the ""towering tower"". Koohii #2 Remember the two towers from lord of the rings... each has it´s own - very difficult to master - entrance gate. Primitives tower, gates, each, walking legs, mouth 内閣(ないかく): cabinet, (government) ministry Kunyomi: Onyomi: カク Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
leisure Details Story Dictionary 閑 leisure Heisig's Gates . . . tree. Koohii #1 Imagine the gates the Garden of Eden, the ultimate land of leisure. You´re not allowed in, but if you peek through you can see trees. Koohii #2 Imagine Leisure Suit Larry walking through the saloon doors with wood in his pants, hoping to get lucky. Primitives leisure, gates, tree, wood 長閑(のどか): tranquil, calm, quiet Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	leisure 閑 画数12 1753 Details Story Dictionary 閑 leisure Heisig's Gates . . . tree. Koohii #1 Imagine the gates the Garden of Eden, the ultimate land of leisure. You´re not allowed in, but if you peek through you can see trees. Koohii #2 Imagine Leisure Suit Larry walking through the saloon doors with wood in his pants, hoping to get lucky. Primitives leisure, gates, tree, wood 長閑(のどか): tranquil, calm, quiet Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
hear Details Story Dictionary 聞 hear Heisig's Gates . . . ear. Compare the story you invented for the kanji meaning listen (Frame 890). Koohii #1 Press your ear to the gates and see if you can hear what is going on inside. Koohii #2 To distinguish from listen, you hear someone at the door (gate). Primitives hear, gates, ear 聞き取り(ききとり): listening comprehension 聞こえる(きこえる): audible, can hear 新聞社(しんぶんしゃ): newspaper office 聞く(きく): hear, listen, ask 新聞(しんぶん): newspaper Kunyomi: き.く、き.こえる Onyomi: ブン、モン Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 新聞 (しんぶん), 風聞 (ふうぶん), 見聞 (けんぶん), 聞く (き.く), 聞こえる (き.こえる)	hear 聞 画数14 1754 Details Story Dictionary 聞 hear Heisig's Gates . . . ear. Compare the story you invented for the kanji meaning listen (Frame 890). Koohii #1 Press your ear to the gates and see if you can hear what is going on inside. Koohii #2 To distinguish from listen, you hear someone at the door (gate). Primitives hear, gates, ear 聞き取り(ききとり): listening comprehension 聞こえる(きこえる): audible, can hear 新聞社(しんぶんしゃ): newspaper office 聞く(きく): hear, listen, ask 新聞(しんぶん): newspaper Kunyomi: き.く、き.こえる Onyomi: ブン、モン Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 新聞 (しんぶん), 風聞 (ふうぶん), 見聞 (けんぶん), 聞く (き.く), 聞こえる (き.こえる)
wet Details Story Dictionary 潤 wet Heisig's Water . . . gates . . . king. Koohii #1 Forgetting about the moat, the king stepped out of his gate and landed in the water. Needless to say he got wet. Koohii #2 (I had the same idea as Dingomick) I imagine some prankster who put a bucket full of water on top of the huge gates, so that it would fall on the king as he came through them. See the king now, between the gates, all wet, dripping drops of water. Primitives wet, water, water droplets, water pistol, intercalate, gates, king, jewel, ball 潤う(うるおう): to be moist, to be damp, to get wet, to profit by, to be watered, to receive benefits, to favor, to charm, to steepen 利潤(りじゅん): profit, returns Kunyomi: うるお.う、うるお.す、うる.む Onyomi: ジュン Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 潤む (うる.む), 潤う (うるお.う), 潤す (うるお.す)	wet 潤 画数15 1755 Details Story Dictionary 潤 wet Heisig's Water . . . gates . . . king. Koohii #1 Forgetting about the moat, the king stepped out of his gate and landed in the water. Needless to say he got wet. Koohii #2 (I had the same idea as Dingomick) I imagine some prankster who put a bucket full of water on top of the huge gates, so that it would fall on the king as he came through them. See the king now, between the gates, all wet, dripping drops of water. Primitives wet, water, water droplets, water pistol, intercalate, gates, king, jewel, ball 潤う(うるおう): to be moist, to be damp, to get wet, to profit by, to be watered, to receive benefits, to favor, to charm, to steepen 利潤(りじゅん): profit, returns Kunyomi: うるお.う、うるお.す、うる.む Onyomi: ジュン Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 潤む (うる.む), 潤う (うるお.う), 潤す (うるお.す)
column Details Story Dictionary 欄 column Heisig's Tree . . . gates . . . east. Koohii #1 [column; handrail; blank; space] I think about oriental (eastern) Torii gates: they have two supporting columns made of wood. Koohii #2 A column of text scratched on a black tree beside the gates of Hell: To the East lies The Beast. Primitives column, tree, wood, gates, east, tree, wood, sun, day, tree2, wood2 欄(らん): column of text (as in a newspaper) Kunyomi: てすり Onyomi: ラン Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	column 欄 画数20 1756 Details Story Dictionary 欄 column Heisig's Tree . . . gates . . . east. Koohii #1 [column; handrail; blank; space] I think about oriental (eastern) Torii gates: they have two supporting columns made of wood. Koohii #2 A column of text scratched on a black tree beside the gates of Hell: To the East lies The Beast. Primitives column, tree, wood, gates, east, tree, wood, sun, day, tree2, wood2 欄(らん): column of text (as in a newspaper) Kunyomi: てすり Onyomi: ラン Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
fight Details Story Dictionary 闘 fight Heisig's Gates . . . table . . . glue. Do not confuse with contend (Frame 1238). Koohii #1 During the saloon brawl, one guy got glued to a table and was tossed out through the saloon gates. But he really wanted to fight, so he ran back through those gates (with the table still glued to his back) only to be tossed out again. Imagine him repeatedly running in and being tossed back out. Koohii #2 Food fight! Look, beans are stuck to the gates like glue. Primitives fight, gates, beans, table, one, mouth, glue 戦闘(せんとう): battle, fight, combat 奮闘(ふんとう): hard struggle, strenuous effort Kunyomi: たたか.う、あらそ.う Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 闘う (たたか.う)	fight 闘 画数18 1757 Details Story Dictionary 闘 fight Heisig's Gates . . . table . . . glue. Do not confuse with contend (Frame 1238). Koohii #1 During the saloon brawl, one guy got glued to a table and was tossed out through the saloon gates. But he really wanted to fight, so he ran back through those gates (with the table still glued to his back) only to be tossed out again. Imagine him repeatedly running in and being tossed back out. Koohii #2 Food fight! Look, beans are stuck to the gates like glue. Primitives fight, gates, beans, table, one, mouth, glue 戦闘(せんとう): battle, fight, combat 奮闘(ふんとう): hard struggle, strenuous effort Kunyomi: たたか.う、あらそ.う Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 闘う (たたか.う)
godown Details Story Dictionary 倉 godown Heisig's The single gate is used here not in order to represent one gate, but many of them, indeed a meeting of gates. Add mouth (as an entrance here) and you end up with godown. That should help keep this character distinct from warehouse (Frame 633). Koohii #1 A godown is a dockside warehouse. This is actually a meeting of large doors and mouths. The stroke order is the same as door, not gates, just with the top stroke moved down into the now larger door. Koohii #2 Note: this is not gate but actually a variation of door and is written as such, with the vertical stroke last not first. Primitives godown, meeting, single gate, umbrella, stable door, mouth 倉庫(そうこ): storehouse, warehouse Kunyomi: くら Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 倉 (くら)	godown 倉 画数10 1758 Details Story Dictionary 倉 godown Heisig's The single gate is used here not in order to represent one gate, but many of them, indeed a meeting of gates. Add mouth (as an entrance here) and you end up with godown. That should help keep this character distinct from warehouse (Frame 633). Koohii #1 A godown is a dockside warehouse. This is actually a meeting of large doors and mouths. The stroke order is the same as door, not gates, just with the top stroke moved down into the now larger door. Koohii #2 Note: this is not gate but actually a variation of door and is written as such, with the vertical stroke last not first. Primitives godown, meeting, single gate, umbrella, stable door, mouth 倉庫(そうこ): storehouse, warehouse Kunyomi: くら Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 倉 (くら)
genesis Details Story Dictionary 創 genesis Heisig's Godown . . . saber. Koohii #1 Back in the day the people were so excited to get hold of the Sega genesis they looted the godown with sabers. Koohii #2 I prefer to have girls Godown on my sabre to prevent unwanted GENESIS of babies............創造　そうぞう (creation). Primitives genesis, godown, meeting, single gate, umbrella, stable door, mouth, sword, sabre, saber 創刊(そうかん): launching (e.g. newspaper), first issue 創作(そうさく): production, literary creation, work 創造(そうぞう): creation 創立(そうりつ): establishment, founding, organization 独創(どくそう): originality Kunyomi: つく.る、はじ.める、きず、けず.しける Onyomi: ソウ、ショウ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	genesis 創 画数12 1759 Details Story Dictionary 創 genesis Heisig's Godown . . . saber. Koohii #1 Back in the day the people were so excited to get hold of the Sega genesis they looted the godown with sabers. Koohii #2 I prefer to have girls Godown on my sabre to prevent unwanted GENESIS of babies............創造　そうぞう (creation). Primitives genesis, godown, meeting, single gate, umbrella, stable door, mouth, sword, sabre, saber 創刊(そうかん): launching (e.g. newspaper), first issue 創作(そうさく): production, literary creation, work 創造(そうぞう): creation 創立(そうりつ): establishment, founding, organization 独創(どくそう): originality Kunyomi: つく.る、はじ.める、きず、けず.しける Onyomi: ソウ、ショウ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"un- Details Story Dictionary 非 un- Heisig's This key word, a negating prefix, is a doodle of a heavy iron pole with bars extending in both directions, to create the picture of a jail cell. From there to ""un-"" is but a short step. * As a primitive, we shall draw on the explanation above for the meaning of jail cell. Koohii #1 This looks like a pictogram of 3 fingers from each hand trying to open up a crack in a wall. That´s an un-believable way to escape from prison OR the UN- have a prison in the Hague. Koohii #2 People in the jail cell are un-friendly, un-comely, and un-cooperative. Primitives un-, jail cell, prison bars 是非とも(ぜひとも): by all means (with sense of not taking ""no"" for an answer) 非(ひ): faulty-, non- 非行(ひこう): delinquency, misconduct 非難(ひなん): blame, attack, criticism 是非(ぜひ): certainly, without fail 非常(ひじょう): emergency, extraordinary, unusual 非常に(ひじょうに): very, greatly Kunyomi: あら.ず Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"un- 非 画数8 1760 Details Story Dictionary 非 un- Heisig's This key word, a negating prefix, is a doodle of a heavy iron pole with bars extending in both directions, to create the picture of a jail cell. From there to ""un-"" is but a short step. * As a primitive, we shall draw on the explanation above for the meaning of jail cell. Koohii #1 This looks like a pictogram of 3 fingers from each hand trying to open up a crack in a wall. That´s an un-believable way to escape from prison OR the UN- have a prison in the Hague. Koohii #2 People in the jail cell are un-friendly, un-comely, and un-cooperative. Primitives un-, jail cell, prison bars 是非とも(ぜひとも): by all means (with sense of not taking ""no"" for an answer) 非(ひ): faulty-, non- 非行(ひこう): delinquency, misconduct 非難(ひなん): blame, attack, criticism 是非(ぜひ): certainly, without fail 非常(ひじょう): emergency, extraordinary, unusual 非常に(ひじょうに): very, greatly Kunyomi: あら.ず Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
haiku Details Story Dictionary 俳 haiku My Story A haiku about a *person* liking *kim jong un* would hilarious Are actors basically selfish, phony, *unjust* *people* ? HAI. Koohii #1 I pity the fool/ Who put me in this jail cell/ I pity the fool. (Credit taijuando). Koohii #2 I pity the fool/ Who put me in this jail/ I pity the fool. Primitives haiku, person, un-, jail cell, prison bars 俳優(はいゆう): actor, actress, player, performer 俳句(はいく): 17-syllable poem Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハイ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	haiku 俳 画数10 1761 Details Story Dictionary 俳 haiku My Story A haiku about a *person* liking *kim jong un* would hilarious Are actors basically selfish, phony, *unjust* *people* ? HAI. Koohii #1 I pity the fool/ Who put me in this jail cell/ I pity the fool. (Credit taijuando). Koohii #2 I pity the fool/ Who put me in this jail/ I pity the fool. Primitives haiku, person, un-, jail cell, prison bars 俳優(はいゆう): actor, actress, player, performer 俳句(はいく): 17-syllable poem Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハイ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
repudiate Details Story Dictionary 排 repudiate Heisig's Fingers . . . jail cell. Koohii #1 When ordered to go to the jail cell, the defendant gave the judge the finger and said he repudiated all that the legal system stood for if they were going to send an innocent man like him to jail. Koohii #2 He reached his fingers through the bars of his jail cell, trying to touch his beloved. But she repudiated him and left. Primitives repudiate, finger, fingers, un-, jail cell, prison bars 排除(はいじょ): exclusion, removal, rejection 排水(はいすい): drainage Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハイ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	repudiate 排 画数11 1762 Details Story Dictionary 排 repudiate Heisig's Fingers . . . jail cell. Koohii #1 When ordered to go to the jail cell, the defendant gave the judge the finger and said he repudiated all that the legal system stood for if they were going to send an innocent man like him to jail. Koohii #2 He reached his fingers through the bars of his jail cell, trying to touch his beloved. But she repudiated him and left. Primitives repudiate, finger, fingers, un-, jail cell, prison bars 排除(はいじょ): exclusion, removal, rejection 排水(はいすい): drainage Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハイ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
sad Details Story Dictionary 悲 sad Heisig's Jail cell . . . heart. Koohii #1 Saddness is like having your heart captured and jailed because of some sad or terrible event, etc. Here the sad heart waits for someone to come and un-lock their jail cell and set them free again. Koohii #2 Stuck in a jail cell with his heart crying out to see his family again, the prisoner has never felt so sad. Primitives sad, un-, jail cell, prison bars, heart 悲観(ひかん): pessimism, disappointment 悲惨(ひさん): misery 悲鳴(ひめい): shriek, scream 悲しむ(かなしむ): be sad, mourn for, regret 悲劇(ひげき): tragedy 悲しい(かなしい): sad Kunyomi: かな.しい、かな.しむ Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 悲しい (かな.しい), 悲しむ (かな.しむ)	sad 悲 画数12 1763 Details Story Dictionary 悲 sad Heisig's Jail cell . . . heart. Koohii #1 Saddness is like having your heart captured and jailed because of some sad or terrible event, etc. Here the sad heart waits for someone to come and un-lock their jail cell and set them free again. Koohii #2 Stuck in a jail cell with his heart crying out to see his family again, the prisoner has never felt so sad. Primitives sad, un-, jail cell, prison bars, heart 悲観(ひかん): pessimism, disappointment 悲惨(ひさん): misery 悲鳴(ひめい): shriek, scream 悲しむ(かなしむ): be sad, mourn for, regret 悲劇(ひげき): tragedy 悲しい(かなしい): sad Kunyomi: かな.しい、かな.しむ Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 悲しい (かな.しい), 悲しむ (かな.しむ)
guilt Details Story Dictionary 罪 guilt Heisig's Eye . . . jail cell. Koohii #1 Guilty under the eyes of the law, therefore sentenced to jail. [note: ´UNDER the eye of the law´ works in penalty (#833) as well.]. Koohii #2 It is his guilt that is causing them. He is having these nightmares where the great (sideways) eye appears at the top of his jail cell, and is staring down intently at him. Guilt is a merciless tormentor. Primitives guilt, eye, cross-eyed, net, un-, jail cell, prison bars 罪(つみ): crime, fault, indiscretion 犯罪(はんざい): crime Kunyomi: つみ Onyomi: ザイ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 罪 (つみ)	guilt 罪 画数13 1764 Details Story Dictionary 罪 guilt Heisig's Eye . . . jail cell. Koohii #1 Guilty under the eyes of the law, therefore sentenced to jail. [note: ´UNDER the eye of the law´ works in penalty (#833) as well.]. Koohii #2 It is his guilt that is causing them. He is having these nightmares where the great (sideways) eye appears at the top of his jail cell, and is staring down intently at him. Guilt is a merciless tormentor. Primitives guilt, eye, cross-eyed, net, un-, jail cell, prison bars 罪(つみ): crime, fault, indiscretion 犯罪(はんざい): crime Kunyomi: つみ Onyomi: ザイ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 罪 (つみ)
comrade Details Story Dictionary 輩 comrade My Story [Kim Jong Un + Car] *Kim Jong Un* can ride a *Car* like a Russian Comrade Used in 先輩 and 後輩 Koohii #1 Some man jailed in Russia, is freed by his comrade (from the Communist party perhaps), who crashes into the jail cell with a vehicle. Koohii #2 (+fuaburisu) But it´s the wrong jail cell! Your comrade is one floor above. Primitives comrade, un-, jail cell, prison bars, car 後輩(こうはい): junior (at work or school) 先輩(せんぱい): one´s senior Kunyomi: ともがら、 -ばら、 やかい、 やから Onyomi: ハイ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	comrade 輩 画数15 1765 Details Story Dictionary 輩 comrade My Story [Kim Jong Un + Car] *Kim Jong Un* can ride a *Car* like a Russian Comrade Used in 先輩 and 後輩 Koohii #1 Some man jailed in Russia, is freed by his comrade (from the Communist party perhaps), who crashes into the jail cell with a vehicle. Koohii #2 (+fuaburisu) But it´s the wrong jail cell! Your comrade is one floor above. Primitives comrade, un-, jail cell, prison bars, car 後輩(こうはい): junior (at work or school) 先輩(せんぱい): one´s senior Kunyomi: ともがら、 -ばら、 やかい、 やから Onyomi: ハイ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"front door Details Story Dictionary 扉 front door Heisig's Door . . . jail cell. Koohii #1 The only way out of a jail cell is to serve your time and walk out the front door. There are no other doors. Koohii #2 An old man serving a very long jail sentence painted a life-like door at the back of his jail cell, hlafway open, with the blue sky, clouds, etc, as some kind of symbol of freedom. Every time the prison officers come to take him they ask him to come to the door. The old man with a grin always answers ""Which door?"", looking at his painted door with a grin. And the prison officer always answer, sighing - ""The front door !"". Primitives front door, door, one, ceiling, flag, un-, jail cell, prison bars 扉(とびら): door, opening Kunyomi: とびら Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 扉 (とびら)"	"front door 扉 画数12 1766 Details Story Dictionary 扉 front door Heisig's Door . . . jail cell. Koohii #1 The only way out of a jail cell is to serve your time and walk out the front door. There are no other doors. Koohii #2 An old man serving a very long jail sentence painted a life-like door at the back of his jail cell, hlafway open, with the blue sky, clouds, etc, as some kind of symbol of freedom. Every time the prison officers come to take him they ask him to come to the door. The old man with a grin always answers ""Which door?"", looking at his painted door with a grin. And the prison officer always answer, sighing - ""The front door !"". Primitives front door, door, one, ceiling, flag, un-, jail cell, prison bars 扉(とびら): door, opening Kunyomi: とびら Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 扉 (とびら)"
marquis Details Story Dictionary 侯 marquis Heisig's Person . . . key . . . dart. Hint: the pun suggested by the pronunciation of the key word and the primitive for key may come in helpful. Koohii #1 Marquis Keydartee (make-believe french name, Key+dart+T). Koohii #2 (Going off various) Mr. T. is made a marquis and given the key to the city. But somebody disagrees with it and assassinates him with a dart. Primitives marquis, person, key, dart, drop, heavens Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	marquis 侯 画数9 1767 Details Story Dictionary 侯 marquis Heisig's Person . . . key . . . dart. Hint: the pun suggested by the pronunciation of the key word and the primitive for key may come in helpful. Koohii #1 Marquis Keydartee (make-believe french name, Key+dart+T). Koohii #2 (Going off various) Mr. T. is made a marquis and given the key to the city. But somebody disagrees with it and assassinates him with a dart. Primitives marquis, person, key, dart, drop, heavens Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"throat Details Story Dictionary 喉 throat Heisig's Mouth . . . marquis. Koohii #1 I think of ""clearing your throat"". Some stuffy guy opens his mouth to clear his throat so the marquis can speak. Koohii #2 The Marquis de Sade was kinda gay. He used to mouth down a lot of deep-throat action. Primitives throat, mouth, marquis, person, key, dart, drop, heavens 喉(のど): throat Kunyomi: のど Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 喉 (のど)"	"throat 喉 画数12 1768 Details Story Dictionary 喉 throat Heisig's Mouth . . . marquis. Koohii #1 I think of ""clearing your throat"". Some stuffy guy opens his mouth to clear his throat so the marquis can speak. Koohii #2 The Marquis de Sade was kinda gay. He used to mouth down a lot of deep-throat action. Primitives throat, mouth, marquis, person, key, dart, drop, heavens 喉(のど): throat Kunyomi: のど Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 喉 (のど)"
climate Details Story Dictionary 候 climate Heisig's Marquis . . . walking stick. Note where the walking stick is positioned in this kanji. Koohii #1 The marquis has absolutely no interest in issuses of climate change. He´s old and near death. [Don´t forget the walking stick to symbolize his old age.]. Koohii #2 The marquis moves to a warmer climate after he gets old enough to need a walking stick to get around. Primitives climate, marquis, person, stick, fred astaire, key, dart, drop, heavens 気候(きこう): climate 候補(こうほ): candidacy 天候(てんこう): weather Kunyomi: そうろう Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 候 (そうろう)	climate 候 画数10 1769 Details Story Dictionary 候 climate Heisig's Marquis . . . walking stick. Note where the walking stick is positioned in this kanji. Koohii #1 The marquis has absolutely no interest in issuses of climate change. He´s old and near death. [Don´t forget the walking stick to symbolize his old age.]. Koohii #2 The marquis moves to a warmer climate after he gets old enough to need a walking stick to get around. Primitives climate, marquis, person, stick, fred astaire, key, dart, drop, heavens 気候(きこう): climate 候補(こうほ): candidacy 天候(てんこう): weather Kunyomi: そうろう Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 候 (そうろう)
"decide Details Story Dictionary 決 decide Heisig's The etymology of decide (de-cidere = cut off) will help here; the elements are: water . . . guillotine. Koohii #1 Decide! ""Decide?! Death by drowning in polluted water or death by guillotine. How can I decide?"" I asked. Koohii #2 To decide if someone is a witch or not first dunk them in water. If they don´t drown they are a witch and can be sent to the guillotine. Primitives decide, water, water droplets, water pistol, guillotine, key, St. Bernard 議決(ぎけつ): resolution, decision, vote 決まり悪い(きまりわるい): feeling awkward, being ashamed 決意(けつい): decision, determination 決議(けつぎ): resolution, vote, decision 決行(けっこう): doing (with resolve), carrying out (i.e. a plan) 決算(けっさん): balance sheet, settlement of accounts 決勝(けっしょう): decision of a contest, finals (in sports) 決断(けつだん): decision, determination 採決(さいけつ): vote, roll call 対決(たいけつ): confrontation, showdown 多数決(たすうけつ): majority rule 判決(はんけつ): judicial decision, judgement, sentence, decree 否決(ひけつ): rejection, negation, voting down 解決(かいけつ): settlement, solution, resolution 可決(かけつ): approval, adoption (e.g. motion, bill), passage 決まり(きまり): settlement, conclusion, regulation, rule, custom 決心(けっしん): determination, resolution 決定(けってい): decision, determination 決まる(きまる): be decided 決める(きめる): decide 決して(けっして): definitely, by no means, not at all Kunyomi: き.める、-ぎ.め、き.まる、さ.く Onyomi: ケツ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 決まる (き.まる), 決める (き.める)"	"decide 決 画数7 1770 Details Story Dictionary 決 decide Heisig's The etymology of decide (de-cidere = cut off) will help here; the elements are: water . . . guillotine. Koohii #1 Decide! ""Decide?! Death by drowning in polluted water or death by guillotine. How can I decide?"" I asked. Koohii #2 To decide if someone is a witch or not first dunk them in water. If they don´t drown they are a witch and can be sent to the guillotine. Primitives decide, water, water droplets, water pistol, guillotine, key, St. Bernard 議決(ぎけつ): resolution, decision, vote 決まり悪い(きまりわるい): feeling awkward, being ashamed 決意(けつい): decision, determination 決議(けつぎ): resolution, vote, decision 決行(けっこう): doing (with resolve), carrying out (i.e. a plan) 決算(けっさん): balance sheet, settlement of accounts 決勝(けっしょう): decision of a contest, finals (in sports) 決断(けつだん): decision, determination 採決(さいけつ): vote, roll call 対決(たいけつ): confrontation, showdown 多数決(たすうけつ): majority rule 判決(はんけつ): judicial decision, judgement, sentence, decree 否決(ひけつ): rejection, negation, voting down 解決(かいけつ): settlement, solution, resolution 可決(かけつ): approval, adoption (e.g. motion, bill), passage 決まり(きまり): settlement, conclusion, regulation, rule, custom 決心(けっしん): determination, resolution 決定(けってい): decision, determination 決まる(きまる): be decided 決める(きめる): decide 決して(けっして): definitely, by no means, not at all Kunyomi: き.める、-ぎ.め、き.まる、さ.く Onyomi: ケツ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 決まる (き.まる), 決める (き.める)"
cheerful Details Story Dictionary 快 cheerful Heisig's State of mind . . . guillotine. Koohii #1 A large crowd in a cheerful state of mind applaude each criminal as they become victims of the guillotine. Koohii #2 A cheerful crowd of insulted aliens applaude as Data´s head is chopped off by guillotine. Primitives cheerful, Freud, state of mind, guillotine, key, St. Bernard 軽快(けいかい): rhythmical (e.g. melody), casual (e.g. dress), light, nimble 快い(こころよい): pleasant, agreeable 全快(ぜんかい): complete recovery of health 快晴(かいせい): good weather 快適(かいてき): pleasant, agreeable, comfortable 愉快(ゆかい): pleasant, happy Kunyomi: こころよ.い Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 快い (こころよ.い)	cheerful 快 画数7 1771 Details Story Dictionary 快 cheerful Heisig's State of mind . . . guillotine. Koohii #1 A large crowd in a cheerful state of mind applaude each criminal as they become victims of the guillotine. Koohii #2 A cheerful crowd of insulted aliens applaude as Data´s head is chopped off by guillotine. Primitives cheerful, Freud, state of mind, guillotine, key, St. Bernard 軽快(けいかい): rhythmical (e.g. melody), casual (e.g. dress), light, nimble 快い(こころよい): pleasant, agreeable 全快(ぜんかい): complete recovery of health 快晴(かいせい): good weather 快適(かいてき): pleasant, agreeable, comfortable 愉快(ゆかい): pleasant, happy Kunyomi: こころよ.い Onyomi: カイ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 快い (こころよ.い)
"admirable Details Story Dictionary 偉 admirable Heisig's Person . . . locket. Koohii #1 LOCKETs often carry inside them a picture of a PERSON we find ADMIRABLE. Koohii #2 For locket: The locket (key dangling from something, the vertical stroke) opens like a mouth, but you need a jeweler´s monocle to make out the pictures within. ----- Dracula survives a staking attempt when the locket with Mina´s admirable picture deflects the blow. ""It was an admirable attempt,"" he admits as he sucks his attacker´s blood. Primitives admirable, person, locket, stick, key, mouth, monocle, sunglasses with one lens missing 偉大(いだい): greatness 偉い(えらい): great, celebrated, eminent, terrible, awful, famous, remarkable, excellent Kunyomi: えら.い Onyomi: イ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 偉い (えら.い)"	"admirable 偉 画数12 1772 Details Story Dictionary 偉 admirable Heisig's Person . . . locket. Koohii #1 LOCKETs often carry inside them a picture of a PERSON we find ADMIRABLE. Koohii #2 For locket: The locket (key dangling from something, the vertical stroke) opens like a mouth, but you need a jeweler´s monocle to make out the pictures within. ----- Dracula survives a staking attempt when the locket with Mina´s admirable picture deflects the blow. ""It was an admirable attempt,"" he admits as he sucks his attacker´s blood. Primitives admirable, person, locket, stick, key, mouth, monocle, sunglasses with one lens missing 偉大(いだい): greatness 偉い(えらい): great, celebrated, eminent, terrible, awful, famous, remarkable, excellent Kunyomi: えら.い Onyomi: イ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 偉い (えら.い)"
"difference Details Story Dictionary 違 difference My Story [Orgy (Five + Mouth + Fuck) + Motion] At *orgies*, the difference between me and you is that I use lots of *motion* Koohii #1 You lose your precious locket on the road to somewhere. You ask people if they´ve seen it, but no luck. ""Just buy another one,"" someone says. ""I mean, what´s the difference?"" Then of course you say ""Well, it makes a huge difference!! Since it has sentimental value, I don´t want a different one! "" Then of course they understand. Koohii #2 An odd version of The Road Less Traveled: ""I found a locket in the road, and that has made all the difference."". Primitives difference, locket, stick, key, mouth, monocle, sunglasses with one lens missing, road 行き違い(いきちがい): misunderstanding, estrangement, disagreement, crossing without meeting, going astray 食い違う(くいちがう): to cross each other, to run counter to, to differ, to clash, to go awry 擦れ違い(すれちがい): chance encounter すれ違う(すれちがう): to pass by one another, to disagree, to miss each other 違える(ちがえる): to change 間違う(まちがう): to make a mistake, to be incorrect, to be mistaken 違反(いはん): violation (of law), transgression 勘違い(かんちがい): misunderstanding, wrong guess 相違(そうい): difference, discrepancy, variation 違い(ちがい): difference, discrepancy 違いない(ちがいない): sure, no mistaking it, for certain 間違い(まちがい): mistake 間違える(まちがえる): make a mistake 違う(ちがう): differ (from) Kunyomi: ちが.う、ちが.い、ちが.える、-ちが.える、たが.う、たが.える Onyomi: イ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 違う (ちが.う), 違える (ちが.える)"	"difference 違 画数13 1773 Details Story Dictionary 違 difference My Story [Orgy (Five + Mouth + Fuck) + Motion] At *orgies*, the difference between me and you is that I use lots of *motion* Koohii #1 You lose your precious locket on the road to somewhere. You ask people if they´ve seen it, but no luck. ""Just buy another one,"" someone says. ""I mean, what´s the difference?"" Then of course you say ""Well, it makes a huge difference!! Since it has sentimental value, I don´t want a different one! "" Then of course they understand. Koohii #2 An odd version of The Road Less Traveled: ""I found a locket in the road, and that has made all the difference."". Primitives difference, locket, stick, key, mouth, monocle, sunglasses with one lens missing, road 行き違い(いきちがい): misunderstanding, estrangement, disagreement, crossing without meeting, going astray 食い違う(くいちがう): to cross each other, to run counter to, to differ, to clash, to go awry 擦れ違い(すれちがい): chance encounter すれ違う(すれちがう): to pass by one another, to disagree, to miss each other 違える(ちがえる): to change 間違う(まちがう): to make a mistake, to be incorrect, to be mistaken 違反(いはん): violation (of law), transgression 勘違い(かんちがい): misunderstanding, wrong guess 相違(そうい): difference, discrepancy, variation 違い(ちがい): difference, discrepancy 違いない(ちがいない): sure, no mistaking it, for certain 間違い(まちがい): mistake 間違える(まちがえる): make a mistake 違う(ちがう): differ (from) Kunyomi: ちが.う、ちが.い、ちが.える、-ちが.える、たが.う、たが.える Onyomi: イ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 違う (ちが.う), 違える (ちが.える)"
"horizontal Details Story Dictionary 緯 horizontal Heisig's Thread . . . locket. Koohii #1 The thread that holds the locket around my neck is choker-length so it stays horizontal. Koohii #2 Hint : this kanji also means ""latitude"", which are the horizontal lines on a globe. Do you remember James Heisig's story for frame 175 ""black ink"" ? Here a cartographer on a ship, is using his ""thread locket"" to mark horizontal lines on a map. He pulls a chalked thread from the locket, and snaps it to mark horizontal lines. Imagine the ""thread-locket"" in the shape of a globe, filled with dark powder and a little bobbin of thread. Primitives horizontal, thread, spiderman, locket, stick, key, mouth, monocle, sunglasses with one lens missing 経緯(いきさつ): details, whole story, sequence of events, particulars, how it started, how things got this way, complications, position 緯度(いど): latitude (geography) Kunyomi: よこいと、ぬき Onyomi: イ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"horizontal 緯 画数16 1774 Details Story Dictionary 緯 horizontal Heisig's Thread . . . locket. Koohii #1 The thread that holds the locket around my neck is choker-length so it stays horizontal. Koohii #2 Hint : this kanji also means ""latitude"", which are the horizontal lines on a globe. Do you remember James Heisig's story for frame 175 ""black ink"" ? Here a cartographer on a ship, is using his ""thread locket"" to mark horizontal lines on a map. He pulls a chalked thread from the locket, and snaps it to mark horizontal lines. Imagine the ""thread-locket"" in the shape of a globe, filled with dark powder and a little bobbin of thread. Primitives horizontal, thread, spiderman, locket, stick, key, mouth, monocle, sunglasses with one lens missing 経緯(いきさつ): details, whole story, sequence of events, particulars, how it started, how things got this way, complications, position 緯度(いど): latitude (geography) Kunyomi: よこいと、ぬき Onyomi: イ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"defense Details Story Dictionary 衛 defense Heisig's Boulevard . . . locket. Do not confuse with ward off (Frame 1399), protect (Frame 1072), guard (Frame 198), or safeguard (Frame 756). Koohii #1 [defense; protection] For ""defense against the dark arts"" class, you go the magical boulevard and buy an enchanted locket. Koohii #2 Since it was in the middle of the boulevard, everyone could see she hit the man only in self-defense, as he was trying to steal her valuable locket. Primitives defence, boulevard, going, locket, stick, key, mouth, monocle, sunglasses with one lens missing 衛生(えいせい): health, hygiene, sanitation, medical 護衛(ごえい): guard, convoy, escort 守衛(しゅえい): security guard, doorkeeper 防衛(ぼうえい): defense, protection, self-defense 衛星(えいせい): satellite 自衛(じえい): self-defense Kunyomi: Onyomi: エイ、エ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"defense 衛 画数16 1775 Details Story Dictionary 衛 defense Heisig's Boulevard . . . locket. Do not confuse with ward off (Frame 1399), protect (Frame 1072), guard (Frame 198), or safeguard (Frame 756). Koohii #1 [defense; protection] For ""defense against the dark arts"" class, you go the magical boulevard and buy an enchanted locket. Koohii #2 Since it was in the middle of the boulevard, everyone could see she hit the man only in self-defense, as he was trying to steal her valuable locket. Primitives defence, boulevard, going, locket, stick, key, mouth, monocle, sunglasses with one lens missing 衛生(えいせい): health, hygiene, sanitation, medical 護衛(ごえい): guard, convoy, escort 守衛(しゅえい): security guard, doorkeeper 防衛(ぼうえい): defense, protection, self-defense 衛星(えいせい): satellite 自衛(じえい): self-defense Kunyomi: Onyomi: エイ、エ Lesson: 42 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"Korea Details Story Dictionary 韓 Korea Heisig's As with Italy (Frame 1245) and Africa (Frame 1391), this character simply abbreviates the full name of Korea. Its elements: mist . . . locket. Koohii #1 There´s a young Korean male actor, Yon-sama, famous amongst middle-aged Japanese women. Extremely famous. Read about his affect on Japan/Korean relations on Everything2.com. In any case, women just flipped over this guy, traveled to Korea to see his home, started taking Korean language classes, etc. So, imagine here the misty eyes of the Japanese women as they clutch their lockets with Yon-sama´s picture inside watching his Korean romantic mini series called ""Winter Sonata"". Koohii #2 This character represents the flag of South Korea: a locket (circular taegeuk) in the middle of the mist (white background). http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_South_Korea. Primitives korea, mist, ten, needle, early, sun, day, locket, stick, key, mouth, monocle, sunglasses with one lens missing, ten2, needle2 Kunyomi: から、いげた Onyomi: カン Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"Korea 韓 画数18 1776 Details Story Dictionary 韓 Korea Heisig's As with Italy (Frame 1245) and Africa (Frame 1391), this character simply abbreviates the full name of Korea. Its elements: mist . . . locket. Koohii #1 There´s a young Korean male actor, Yon-sama, famous amongst middle-aged Japanese women. Extremely famous. Read about his affect on Japan/Korean relations on Everything2.com. In any case, women just flipped over this guy, traveled to Korea to see his home, started taking Korean language classes, etc. So, imagine here the misty eyes of the Japanese women as they clutch their lockets with Yon-sama´s picture inside watching his Korean romantic mini series called ""Winter Sonata"". Koohii #2 This character represents the flag of South Korea: a locket (circular taegeuk) in the middle of the mist (white background). http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_South_Korea. Primitives korea, mist, ten, needle, early, sun, day, locket, stick, key, mouth, monocle, sunglasses with one lens missing, ten2, needle2 Kunyomi: から、いげた Onyomi: カン Lesson: 42 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
dry Details Story Dictionary 干 dry Heisig's It is best to see this kanji as a pictograph of a revolving circular clothesline (viewed from the side). Spin it around quickly in your mind's eye to give it the connotation of to dry. * The primitive meaning is clothesline. Koohii #1 Dry one item in ten minutes on the clothesline. Koohii #2 Note: the book shows the strokes for potato rather than dry...dry does not have the hook at the end. Primitives dry, clothesline 梅干(うめぼし): dried plum 干渉(かんしょう): interference, intervention 若干(じゃっかん): some, few, number of 干し物(ほしもの): dried washing (clothes) 干す(ほす): to air, dry, desiccate, drain (off), drink up Kunyomi: ほ.す、ほ.し-、-ぼ.し、ひ.る Onyomi: カン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 干る (ひ.る), 干す (ほ.す)	dry 干 画数3 1777 Details Story Dictionary 干 dry Heisig's It is best to see this kanji as a pictograph of a revolving circular clothesline (viewed from the side). Spin it around quickly in your mind's eye to give it the connotation of to dry. * The primitive meaning is clothesline. Koohii #1 Dry one item in ten minutes on the clothesline. Koohii #2 Note: the book shows the strokes for potato rather than dry...dry does not have the hook at the end. Primitives dry, clothesline 梅干(うめぼし): dried plum 干渉(かんしょう): interference, intervention 若干(じゃっかん): some, few, number of 干し物(ほしもの): dried washing (clothes) 干す(ほす): to air, dry, desiccate, drain (off), drink up Kunyomi: ほ.す、ほ.し-、-ぼ.し、ひ.る Onyomi: カン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 干る (ひ.る), 干す (ほ.す)
liver Details Story Dictionary 肝 liver Heisig's Part of the body . . . dry. Koohii #1 Well you all know that the liver is the part of the body that would be quite grateful if you led a dry lifestyle (i.e. no alcohol). Koohii #2 The slaughterhouse prefers to ship dried liver to the supermarkets (can you imagine boxes soaked in blood on the truck that delivers them?). Imagine them lifting the slabs of flesh and hanging them on the clothesline to dry. Primitives liver, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, dry, clothesline 肝心(かんじん): essential, fundamental, crucial, vital, main Kunyomi: きも Onyomi: カン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 肝 (きも)	liver 肝 画数7 1778 Details Story Dictionary 肝 liver Heisig's Part of the body . . . dry. Koohii #1 Well you all know that the liver is the part of the body that would be quite grateful if you led a dry lifestyle (i.e. no alcohol). Koohii #2 The slaughterhouse prefers to ship dried liver to the supermarkets (can you imagine boxes soaked in blood on the truck that delivers them?). Imagine them lifting the slabs of flesh and hanging them on the clothesline to dry. Primitives liver, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, dry, clothesline 肝心(かんじん): essential, fundamental, crucial, vital, main Kunyomi: きも Onyomi: カン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 肝 (きも)
publish Details Story Dictionary 刊 publish Heisig's Dry . . . saber. Koohii #1 The newspaper pages are hung on the clotheseline to dry and then cut down with a sabre to be published. Koohii #2 The newspaper pages are hung on the clotheseline to dry. This gives the government a chance to censor the news: they cut up unwanted stories with a sabre. Therefore, only state-approved stories are published. Primitives publish, dry, clothesline, sword, sabre, saber 刊行(かんこう): publication, issue 季刊(きかん): quarterly (e.g. magazine) 創刊(そうかん): launching (e.g. newspaper), first issue 夕刊(ゆうかん): evening paper Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	publish 刊 画数5 1779 Details Story Dictionary 刊 publish Heisig's Dry . . . saber. Koohii #1 The newspaper pages are hung on the clotheseline to dry and then cut down with a sabre to be published. Koohii #2 The newspaper pages are hung on the clotheseline to dry. This gives the government a chance to censor the news: they cut up unwanted stories with a sabre. Therefore, only state-approved stories are published. Primitives publish, dry, clothesline, sword, sabre, saber 刊行(かんこう): publication, issue 季刊(きかん): quarterly (e.g. magazine) 創刊(そうかん): launching (e.g. newspaper), first issue 夕刊(ゆうかん): evening paper Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
sweat Details Story Dictionary 汗 sweat Heisig's Water . . . dry. Koohii #1 The way sweat is supposed to work: it gets your skin wet, and then as it evaporates/dries, it cools you off. Koohii #2 When you sweat your clothes become soaked with water, prompting you to hang them to dry on a clothesline. Primitives sweat, water, water droplets, water pistol, dry, clothesline 汗(あせ): sweat Kunyomi: あせ Onyomi: カン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 汗 (あせ)	sweat 汗 画数6 1780 Details Story Dictionary 汗 sweat Heisig's Water . . . dry. Koohii #1 The way sweat is supposed to work: it gets your skin wet, and then as it evaporates/dries, it cools you off. Koohii #2 When you sweat your clothes become soaked with water, prompting you to hang them to dry on a clothesline. Primitives sweat, water, water droplets, water pistol, dry, clothesline 汗(あせ): sweat Kunyomi: あせ Onyomi: カン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 汗 (あせ)
flats Details Story Dictionary 軒 flats Heisig's This kanji, a counter for houses, is made up of cars . . . dry. Koohii #1 Flats in the city are crowded. You get a space for your car in front, and a clothesline out back. Nothing else. Koohii #2 Small flats (garages) for cars help keeping them dry. Primitives flats, car, dry, clothesline 軒並み(のきなみ): row of houses 軒(のき): eaves, house Kunyomi: のき Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 軒 (のき)	flats 軒 画数10 1781 Details Story Dictionary 軒 flats Heisig's This kanji, a counter for houses, is made up of cars . . . dry. Koohii #1 Flats in the city are crowded. You get a space for your car in front, and a clothesline out back. Nothing else. Koohii #2 Small flats (garages) for cars help keeping them dry. Primitives flats, car, dry, clothesline 軒並み(のきなみ): row of houses 軒(のき): eaves, house Kunyomi: のき Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 軒 (のき)
beach / shore / coast Details Story Dictionary 岸 beach / shore / coast My Story [Mountain + Cliff + Dry out {干}] (Nude) beach : Can see *Mountains*; Is under a *cliff*; can *dry out* dick in private A nude #beach# has *mountain* in sight, its hidden under a *cliff*, where the bathers can *dry out* in privacy. Koohii #1 At the base of mountain cliffs, there is usually a beach. You often can see people lying there, drying off after a swim. Koohii #2 Three impossibilities for a beach: There cannot be a beach at the top of a mountain. There cannot be a beach on the top of a cliff. There cannot be a beach that is completely dry. Primitives beach, mountain, cliff, dry, clothesline 沿岸(えんがん): coast, shore 岸(きし): bank, shore, coast 海岸(かいがん): sea shore Kunyomi: きし Onyomi: ガン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 岸 (きし)	beach / shore / coast 岸 画数8 1782 Details Story Dictionary 岸 beach / shore / coast My Story [Mountain + Cliff + Dry out {干}] (Nude) beach : Can see *Mountains*; Is under a *cliff*; can *dry out* dick in private A nude #beach# has *mountain* in sight, its hidden under a *cliff*, where the bathers can *dry out* in privacy. Koohii #1 At the base of mountain cliffs, there is usually a beach. You often can see people lying there, drying off after a swim. Koohii #2 Three impossibilities for a beach: There cannot be a beach at the top of a mountain. There cannot be a beach on the top of a cliff. There cannot be a beach that is completely dry. Primitives beach, mountain, cliff, dry, clothesline 沿岸(えんがん): coast, shore 岸(きし): bank, shore, coast 海岸(かいがん): sea shore Kunyomi: きし Onyomi: ガン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 岸 (きし)
tree trunk Details Story Dictionary 幹 tree trunk Heisig's Mist . . . umbrella . . . dry. The meaning of this key word extends beyond tree trunks to represent the main stem or line of anything from railway lines to managerial staffs. This should help distinguish it from the stories used earlier for book (Frame 224) and body (Frame 1030), both of which made use of the image of a tree trunk, as well as the kanji for trunk (Frame 194). Koohii #1 A fine mist is falling, and so everyone gathers around near the tree-trunk, effectively using the rest of the tree as an umbrella in order to keep dry. Koohii #2 By astridtops - In the rainy mist, Totoro is standing in front of a tree-trunk at the bus stop, under the umbrella he just received. Look at him smiling: even when the big drops fall, he remains dry! Great story...which I get to by thinking: tree-trunk->TT ->Tonari no Totoro. I also imagine Mickey Mouse is there too as the KUNyomi for this kanji is みき. Primitives tree trunk, mist, ten, needle, early, sun, day, umbrella, dry, clothesline, ten2, needle2 幹(かん): (tree) trunk 幹線(かんせん): main line, trunk line 幹部(かんぶ): management, (executive) staff, leaders 新幹線(しんかんせん): bullet train Kunyomi: みき Onyomi: カン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 幹 (みき)	tree trunk 幹 画数13 1783 Details Story Dictionary 幹 tree trunk Heisig's Mist . . . umbrella . . . dry. The meaning of this key word extends beyond tree trunks to represent the main stem or line of anything from railway lines to managerial staffs. This should help distinguish it from the stories used earlier for book (Frame 224) and body (Frame 1030), both of which made use of the image of a tree trunk, as well as the kanji for trunk (Frame 194). Koohii #1 A fine mist is falling, and so everyone gathers around near the tree-trunk, effectively using the rest of the tree as an umbrella in order to keep dry. Koohii #2 By astridtops - In the rainy mist, Totoro is standing in front of a tree-trunk at the bus stop, under the umbrella he just received. Look at him smiling: even when the big drops fall, he remains dry! Great story...which I get to by thinking: tree-trunk->TT ->Tonari no Totoro. I also imagine Mickey Mouse is there too as the KUNyomi for this kanji is みき. Primitives tree trunk, mist, ten, needle, early, sun, day, umbrella, dry, clothesline, ten2, needle2 幹(かん): (tree) trunk 幹線(かんせん): main line, trunk line 幹部(かんぶ): management, (executive) staff, leaders 新幹線(しんかんせん): bullet train Kunyomi: みき Onyomi: カン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 幹 (みき)
potato Details Story Dictionary 芋 potato Heisig's Flowers . . . potato. Koohii #1 If your potatos are growing flowers and those little hooked roots, you should either buy less or eat them faster. Koohii #2 If your potatoes are growing flowers, you need to store them in a more dry place, like hanging them on hooks so they don´t accumulate moisture on the floor. Primitives potato, flowers, potato Kunyomi: いも Onyomi: ウ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 芋 (いも)	potato 芋 画数6 1784 Details Story Dictionary 芋 potato Heisig's Flowers . . . potato. Koohii #1 If your potatos are growing flowers and those little hooked roots, you should either buy less or eat them faster. Koohii #2 If your potatoes are growing flowers, you need to store them in a more dry place, like hanging them on hooks so they don´t accumulate moisture on the floor. Primitives potato, flowers, potato Kunyomi: いも Onyomi: ウ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 芋 (いも)
eaves / Universe Details Story Dictionary 宇 eaves / Universe My Story [Crown + dry out {干}] \t I was *crowned* god of the universe, but my power *dried out* too soon Koohii #1 Under the eaves of the house the poor family has potate plants. Koohii #2 Very good image Erik. To help those who struggleded with this, the eaves of a house is usually the bit where you hang the roof gutter along, usually made of zinc or plastic and shaped as a half-pipe. It catches rain water, so it flows to a drain pipe instead of down onto people and windows. And in this family the potato plants grow along the eaves so the water pours down on them. They are poor. so no gutter. Primitives eaves, house, potato 宇宙(うちゅう): universe, cosmos, space Kunyomi: Onyomi: ウ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	eaves / Universe 宇 画数6 1785 Details Story Dictionary 宇 eaves / Universe My Story [Crown + dry out {干}] \t I was *crowned* god of the universe, but my power *dried out* too soon Koohii #1 Under the eaves of the house the poor family has potate plants. Koohii #2 Very good image Erik. To help those who struggleded with this, the eaves of a house is usually the bit where you hang the roof gutter along, usually made of zinc or plastic and shaped as a half-pipe. It catches rain water, so it flows to a drain pipe instead of down onto people and windows. And in this family the potato plants grow along the eaves so the water pours down on them. They are poor. so no gutter. Primitives eaves, house, potato 宇宙(うちゅう): universe, cosmos, space Kunyomi: Onyomi: ウ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
"too much Details Story Dictionary 余 too much Heisig's Umbrella . . . potato . . . little. The last stroke of potato and the first of little coincide in this character. * Since the phrase ""too much"" is overly abstract, we shall take the image of a scale whose indicator spins round and round on the dial because too much weight has been set on it. It will help to use this image in learning the kanji itself. Koohii #1 You hang an umbrella upside-down on a hook of the scales and fill it with little potatoes. No luck: it weights too much. Koohii #2 This is the kanji for 「あまり Amari」, which means too little in negative sentences and too much in the rest (always with a negative sense). I take the liberty of using the symbol "">"" (more than, another meaning!!) as the umbrella component, and using two (#2) and little (#105) for the potato primitive. So, this kanji either means ""two much"" (more than 2) or ""two little"". (thanks, Virtua_leaf and Thunderball!). Primitives too much, umbrella, potato, small 余り(あんまり): not very (this form only used as adverb), not much, remainder, rest, remnant, surplus, balance, excess, remains, scraps, residue, fullness, other, too much 余暇(よか): leisure, leisure time, spare time 余興(よきょう): side show, entertainment 余所見(よそみ): looking away, looking aside 余地(よち): place, room, margin, scope 余程(よっぽど): very, greatly, much, to a large extent, quite 余り(あまり): remainder, remnant, surplus, balance, excess, scraps, residue 余り(あまり): not very, not much 余る(あまる): remain, be left over, be too many 余計(よけい): too much, unnecessary, abundance, surplus, excess 余所(よそ): another place, somewhere else, strange parts 余分(よぶん): extra, excess, surplus 余裕(よゆう): surplus, composure, margin, room, time, allowance, scope, rope Kunyomi: あま.る、あま.り、あま.す、あんま.り Onyomi: ヨ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 余す (あま.す), 余る (あま.る)"	"too much 余 画数7 1786 Details Story Dictionary 余 too much Heisig's Umbrella . . . potato . . . little. The last stroke of potato and the first of little coincide in this character. * Since the phrase ""too much"" is overly abstract, we shall take the image of a scale whose indicator spins round and round on the dial because too much weight has been set on it. It will help to use this image in learning the kanji itself. Koohii #1 You hang an umbrella upside-down on a hook of the scales and fill it with little potatoes. No luck: it weights too much. Koohii #2 This is the kanji for 「あまり Amari」, which means too little in negative sentences and too much in the rest (always with a negative sense). I take the liberty of using the symbol "">"" (more than, another meaning!!) as the umbrella component, and using two (#2) and little (#105) for the potato primitive. So, this kanji either means ""two much"" (more than 2) or ""two little"". (thanks, Virtua_leaf and Thunderball!). Primitives too much, umbrella, potato, small 余り(あんまり): not very (this form only used as adverb), not much, remainder, rest, remnant, surplus, balance, excess, remains, scraps, residue, fullness, other, too much 余暇(よか): leisure, leisure time, spare time 余興(よきょう): side show, entertainment 余所見(よそみ): looking away, looking aside 余地(よち): place, room, margin, scope 余程(よっぽど): very, greatly, much, to a large extent, quite 余り(あまり): remainder, remnant, surplus, balance, excess, scraps, residue 余り(あまり): not very, not much 余る(あまる): remain, be left over, be too many 余計(よけい): too much, unnecessary, abundance, surplus, excess 余所(よそ): another place, somewhere else, strange parts 余分(よぶん): extra, excess, surplus 余裕(よゆう): surplus, composure, margin, room, time, allowance, scope, rope Kunyomi: あま.る、あま.り、あま.す、あんま.り Onyomi: ヨ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 余す (あま.す), 余る (あま.る)"
exclude Details Story Dictionary 除 exclude Heisig's Pinnacle . . . scale. Koohii #1 You won´t make it unless you exclude something. The climb to the pinacle cannot be completed if you are carrying too much. You just have to decide what you can afford to exclude. Koohii #2 To become a member of The Pinnacle, they test you on a scale. If you weigh too much, they exclude you. Primitives exclude, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, scales, too much, umbrella, potato, small 解除(かいじょ): cancellation, rescinding, release, calling off 控除(こうじょ): subsidy, deduction 除外(じょがい): exception, exclusion 取り除く(とりのぞく): to remove, to take away, to set apart 排除(はいじょ): exclusion, removal, rejection 免除(めんじょ): exemption, exoneration, discharge 削除(さくじょ): elimination, cancellation, deletion, erasure 除く(のぞく): remove, exclude 掃除(そうじ): cleaning, sweeping Kunyomi: のぞ.く、-よ.け Onyomi: ジョ、ジ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 除外 (じょがい), 除数 (じょすう), 解除 (かいじょ), 除く (のぞ.く)	exclude 除 画数10 1787 Details Story Dictionary 除 exclude Heisig's Pinnacle . . . scale. Koohii #1 You won´t make it unless you exclude something. The climb to the pinacle cannot be completed if you are carrying too much. You just have to decide what you can afford to exclude. Koohii #2 To become a member of The Pinnacle, they test you on a scale. If you weigh too much, they exclude you. Primitives exclude, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, scales, too much, umbrella, potato, small 解除(かいじょ): cancellation, rescinding, release, calling off 控除(こうじょ): subsidy, deduction 除外(じょがい): exception, exclusion 取り除く(とりのぞく): to remove, to take away, to set apart 排除(はいじょ): exclusion, removal, rejection 免除(めんじょ): exemption, exoneration, discharge 削除(さくじょ): elimination, cancellation, deletion, erasure 除く(のぞく): remove, exclude 掃除(そうじ): cleaning, sweeping Kunyomi: のぞ.く、-よ.け Onyomi: ジョ、ジ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 除外 (じょがい), 除数 (じょすう), 解除 (かいじょ), 除く (のぞ.く)
gradually Details Story Dictionary 徐 gradually Heisig's Line . . . scale. Koohii #1 You can´t expect weight loss to happen overnight. You should limit going to the scale to weigh yourself to once a day or once a week, in order to observe the anticipated weight loss gradually. Koohii #2 I set up a column chart next to my scales so I could record my weight gradually changing. Primitives gradually, Nelson, column, going, line, scales, too much, umbrella, potato, small 徐行(じょこう): going slowly 徐々(そろそろ): gradually, steadily, quietly, slowly, soon 徐々に(じょじょに): slowly, little by little, gradually, steadily, quietly Kunyomi: おもむ.ろに Onyomi: ジョ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	gradually 徐 画数10 1788 Details Story Dictionary 徐 gradually Heisig's Line . . . scale. Koohii #1 You can´t expect weight loss to happen overnight. You should limit going to the scale to weigh yourself to once a day or once a week, in order to observe the anticipated weight loss gradually. Koohii #2 I set up a column chart next to my scales so I could record my weight gradually changing. Primitives gradually, Nelson, column, going, line, scales, too much, umbrella, potato, small 徐行(じょこう): going slowly 徐々(そろそろ): gradually, steadily, quietly, slowly, soon 徐々に(じょじょに): slowly, little by little, gradually, steadily, quietly Kunyomi: おもむ.ろに Onyomi: ジョ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
confer Details Story Dictionary 叙 confer Heisig's Scale . . crotch. The key word has to do with conferring ranks, titles, and awards. It should not be confused with bestow (Frame 1335) or impart (Frame 795). Koohii #1 Amazed at the weight of his crotch, they conferred every honor upon him. (Image: guy with his junk on a scale getting a medal pinned to his chest/around his neck/being knighted, etc.). Koohii #2 If there is such a thing as too much crotch, the guy who gets that much should have an honor conferred upon him. Primitives confer, scales, too much, umbrella, potato, small, crotch Kunyomi: つい.ず、ついで Onyomi: ジョ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	confer 叙 画数9 1789 Details Story Dictionary 叙 confer Heisig's Scale . . crotch. The key word has to do with conferring ranks, titles, and awards. It should not be confused with bestow (Frame 1335) or impart (Frame 795). Koohii #1 Amazed at the weight of his crotch, they conferred every honor upon him. (Image: guy with his junk on a scale getting a medal pinned to his chest/around his neck/being knighted, etc.). Koohii #2 If there is such a thing as too much crotch, the guy who gets that much should have an honor conferred upon him. Primitives confer, scales, too much, umbrella, potato, small, crotch Kunyomi: つい.ず、ついで Onyomi: ジョ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
route / on the way Details Story Dictionary 途 route / on the way My Story [Excess (house roof + altar) + motion] If you can do lots of *motion*, you're #On the way# to Taking Off *excess* pounds. In other words, exercise! Koohii #1 On this route, all trucks have to check in at the scales before they can get on the road. Koohii #2 There are too many roads, so you need to plan a route. Primitives route, scales, too much, umbrella, potato, small, road 前途(ぜんと): future prospects, outlook, the journey ahead 途中(つちゅう): on the way, en route 途上(とじょう): en route, half way 途絶える(とだえる): to stop, to cease, to come to an end 中途(ちゅうと): in the middle, half-way 途端(とたん): just (now, at the moment, etc.) 用途(ようと): use, usefulness 途中(とちゅう): on the way Kunyomi: みち Onyomi: ト Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	route / on the way 途 画数10 1790 Details Story Dictionary 途 route / on the way My Story [Excess (house roof + altar) + motion] If you can do lots of *motion*, you're #On the way# to Taking Off *excess* pounds. In other words, exercise! Koohii #1 On this route, all trucks have to check in at the scales before they can get on the road. Koohii #2 There are too many roads, so you need to plan a route. Primitives route, scales, too much, umbrella, potato, small, road 前途(ぜんと): future prospects, outlook, the journey ahead 途中(つちゅう): on the way, en route 途上(とじょう): en route, half way 途絶える(とだえる): to stop, to cease, to come to an end 中途(ちゅうと): in the middle, half-way 途端(とたん): just (now, at the moment, etc.) 用途(ようと): use, usefulness 途中(とちゅう): on the way Kunyomi: みち Onyomi: ト Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
"diagonal Details Story Dictionary 斜 diagonal Heisig's Scale . . . measuring cup. Koohii #1 The main bar of an old-fashioned scale(balance) will be very diagonal if you place a giant measuring cup on one side. Koohii #2 The constellation of libra (meaning "" scales"" in latin) is diagonal to the handle of the big dipper. Primitives diagonal, scales, too much, umbrella, potato, small, mmeasuring cup, big dipper, The Plough, drop, ten, needle 傾斜(けいしゃ): inclination, slant, slope, bevel, list, dip 斜面(しゃめん): slope, slanting surface, bevel 斜(はす): aslant, oblique, diagonal 斜め(ななめ): obliqueness Kunyomi: なな.め、はす Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 斜め (なな.め)"	"diagonal 斜 画数11 1791 Details Story Dictionary 斜 diagonal Heisig's Scale . . . measuring cup. Koohii #1 The main bar of an old-fashioned scale(balance) will be very diagonal if you place a giant measuring cup on one side. Koohii #2 The constellation of libra (meaning "" scales"" in latin) is diagonal to the handle of the big dipper. Primitives diagonal, scales, too much, umbrella, potato, small, mmeasuring cup, big dipper, The Plough, drop, ten, needle 傾斜(けいしゃ): inclination, slant, slope, bevel, list, dip 斜面(しゃめん): slope, slanting surface, bevel 斜(はす): aslant, oblique, diagonal 斜め(ななめ): obliqueness Kunyomi: なな.め、はす Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 斜め (なな.め)"
paint Details Story Dictionary 塗 paint Heisig's Water . . . scale . . . ground. Koohii #1 If you add too much water to the paint it will drip onto the ground. Koohii #2 A true artisan mixes his own paint from water and soils on a scale in careful proportions. Primitives paint, water, water droplets, water pistol, scales, too much, umbrella, potato, small, soil, dirt, ground 塗る(ぬる): paint Kunyomi: ぬ.る、ぬ.り、まみ.れる Onyomi: ト Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 塗る (ぬ.る)	paint 塗 画数13 1792 Details Story Dictionary 塗 paint Heisig's Water . . . scale . . . ground. Koohii #1 If you add too much water to the paint it will drip onto the ground. Koohii #2 A true artisan mixes his own paint from water and soils on a scale in careful proportions. Primitives paint, water, water droplets, water pistol, scales, too much, umbrella, potato, small, soil, dirt, ground 塗る(ぬる): paint Kunyomi: ぬ.る、ぬ.り、まみ.れる Onyomi: ト Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 塗る (ぬ.る)
bundle Details Story Dictionary 束 bundle Heisig's In the same way that we were able to see the sun in the tree within the kanji for east, here we see a square container in the shape of a mouth. Koohii #1 Mnemonic: Bundle of joy. Here I see the proverbial stork with a baby hanging from its mouth fly straight into a tree. Painful, but he doesn´t drop the bundle. Koohii #2 Unlike in 杏, this big mouth isn´t content to wait for apricots to fall in his mouth, so he has climbed the tree and is taking them in bundles. Primitives bundle, Chaplin, tree, wood, mouth 結束(けっそく): union, unity 拘束(こうそく): restriction, restraint 束縛(そくばく): restraint, shackles, restriction, confinement, binding 束の間(つかのま): moment, brief time, brief, transient 束(たば): bundle, bunch, sheaf, coil 約束(やくそく): promise Kunyomi: たば、たば.ねる、つか、つか.ねる Onyomi: ソク Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 束 (たば)	bundle 束 画数7 1793 Details Story Dictionary 束 bundle Heisig's In the same way that we were able to see the sun in the tree within the kanji for east, here we see a square container in the shape of a mouth. Koohii #1 Mnemonic: Bundle of joy. Here I see the proverbial stork with a baby hanging from its mouth fly straight into a tree. Painful, but he doesn´t drop the bundle. Koohii #2 Unlike in 杏, this big mouth isn´t content to wait for apricots to fall in his mouth, so he has climbed the tree and is taking them in bundles. Primitives bundle, Chaplin, tree, wood, mouth 結束(けっそく): union, unity 拘束(こうそく): restriction, restraint 束縛(そくばく): restraint, shackles, restriction, confinement, binding 束の間(つかのま): moment, brief time, brief, transient 束(たば): bundle, bunch, sheaf, coil 約束(やくそく): promise Kunyomi: たば、たば.ねる、つか、つか.ねる Onyomi: ソク Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 束 (たば)
trust (ask a favor) Details Story Dictionary 頼 trust (ask a favor) My Story The *fag* begged for some *head*, but I didnt trust him Koohii #1 When you trust in something, you've got your head 頁 all bundled 束 up (wrapped up) in it. Koohii #2 We found a bundle of severed heads in your room, its difficult to trust you. Primitives trust, bundle, Chaplin, tree, wood, mouth, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 頼み(たのみ): request, favor, reliance, dependence 依頼(いらい): request, commission, dispatch, dependence, trust 信頼(しんらい): reliance, trust, confidence 頼もしい(たのもしい): reliable, trustworthy, hopeful, promising 頼る(たよる): rely on, have recourse to, depend on 頼む(たのむ): to request, ask Kunyomi: たの.む、たの.もしい、たよ.る Onyomi: ライ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 頼む (たの.む), 頼もしい (たの.もしい), 頼る (たよ.る)	trust (ask a favor) 頼 画数16 1794 Details Story Dictionary 頼 trust (ask a favor) My Story The *fag* begged for some *head*, but I didnt trust him Koohii #1 When you trust in something, you've got your head 頁 all bundled 束 up (wrapped up) in it. Koohii #2 We found a bundle of severed heads in your room, its difficult to trust you. Primitives trust, bundle, Chaplin, tree, wood, mouth, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 頼み(たのみ): request, favor, reliance, dependence 依頼(いらい): request, commission, dispatch, dependence, trust 信頼(しんらい): reliance, trust, confidence 頼もしい(たのもしい): reliable, trustworthy, hopeful, promising 頼る(たよる): rely on, have recourse to, depend on 頼む(たのむ): to request, ask Kunyomi: たの.む、たの.もしい、たよ.る Onyomi: ライ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 頼む (たの.む), 頼もしい (たの.もしい), 頼る (たよ.る)
rapids Details Story Dictionary 瀬 rapids Heisig's Water . . . bundle . . . head. Koohii #1 You need complete trust in your water guide to attempt Class 5 rapids. Koohii #2 You can never trust the water in the rapids, it will do everything it can to pull you under. Imagine a line of natives with bundles upon their heads all fighting the rapids to cross the river. Primitives rapids, water, water droplets, water pistol, trust, bundle, Chaplin, tree, wood, mouth, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 瀬戸物(せともの): earthenware, crockery, china Kunyomi: せ Onyomi: ライ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 瀬 (せ)	rapids 瀬 画数19 1795 Details Story Dictionary 瀬 rapids Heisig's Water . . . bundle . . . head. Koohii #1 You need complete trust in your water guide to attempt Class 5 rapids. Koohii #2 You can never trust the water in the rapids, it will do everything it can to pull you under. Imagine a line of natives with bundles upon their heads all fighting the rapids to cross the river. Primitives rapids, water, water droplets, water pistol, trust, bundle, Chaplin, tree, wood, mouth, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 瀬戸物(せともの): earthenware, crockery, china Kunyomi: せ Onyomi: ライ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 瀬 (せ)
imperial order Details Story Dictionary 勅 imperial order Heisig's In order to keep this character distinct from that for an imperial edict (Frame 366), we must draw again on a pun. Think of the order here as a mail order or an order of pizza phoned in by the Emperor for delivery to the imperial palace. Then it will not be hard to put together bundle and muscle to form a story about an imperial order. Koohii #1 This is an imperial order for pizza. To deliver the huge bundle of pizzas to the emperor, the pizza boy needs huge muscles. Koohii #2 Imperial order carries quite a bundle of executive power. Primitives imperial order, bundle, Chaplin, tree, wood, mouth, power, muscle, arnold Kunyomi: いまし.める、みことのり Onyomi: チョク Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	imperial order 勅 画数9 1796 Details Story Dictionary 勅 imperial order Heisig's In order to keep this character distinct from that for an imperial edict (Frame 366), we must draw again on a pun. Think of the order here as a mail order or an order of pizza phoned in by the Emperor for delivery to the imperial palace. Then it will not be hard to put together bundle and muscle to form a story about an imperial order. Koohii #1 This is an imperial order for pizza. To deliver the huge bundle of pizzas to the emperor, the pizza boy needs huge muscles. Koohii #2 Imperial order carries quite a bundle of executive power. Primitives imperial order, bundle, Chaplin, tree, wood, mouth, power, muscle, arnold Kunyomi: いまし.める、みことのり Onyomi: チョク Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
alienate Details Story Dictionary 疎 alienate Heisig's Zoo . . . bundle. Note that the element for zoo is flattened out on the left just as leg (Frame 1372) had been. This is the only time we will meet this form in this book. Koohii #1 [True story] In Osaka the homeless (the alienated) live in large numbers around the city zoo. Picture them in winter all bundled up in rags trying to keep warm, alienated from the society, living literally worst than the animals in the zoo who at least are bundled in their natural furs and have pens to live in sheltered from the elements. Koohii #2 This kanji is so strange that it was alienated at the kanji zoo. The bundle of joy stork bundles this kanji up and takes it to a kanji foster home. Primitives alienate, zoo, critters, stop, footprint, bundle, Chaplin, tree, wood, mouth 疎か(おろそか): neglect, negligence, carelessness 過疎(かそ): depopulation Kunyomi: うと.い、うと.む、まば.ら Onyomi: ソ、ショ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 疎い (うと.い), 疎む (うと.む)	alienate 疎 画数12 1797 Details Story Dictionary 疎 alienate Heisig's Zoo . . . bundle. Note that the element for zoo is flattened out on the left just as leg (Frame 1372) had been. This is the only time we will meet this form in this book. Koohii #1 [True story] In Osaka the homeless (the alienated) live in large numbers around the city zoo. Picture them in winter all bundled up in rags trying to keep warm, alienated from the society, living literally worst than the animals in the zoo who at least are bundled in their natural furs and have pens to live in sheltered from the elements. Koohii #2 This kanji is so strange that it was alienated at the kanji zoo. The bundle of joy stork bundles this kanji up and takes it to a kanji foster home. Primitives alienate, zoo, critters, stop, footprint, bundle, Chaplin, tree, wood, mouth 疎か(おろそか): neglect, negligence, carelessness 過疎(かそ): depopulation Kunyomi: うと.い、うと.む、まば.ら Onyomi: ソ、ショ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 疎い (うと.い), 疎む (うと.む)
bitter Details Story Dictionary 辣 bitter Heisig's Spicy . . . bundle. Koohii #1 The bitter taste was so awful that I put whole bundle of spice in my mouth to get rid of it. Koohii #2 I'm rather bitter that someone stole my spice bundle. Kunyomi: から.い Onyomi: ラツ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	bitter 辣 画数14 1798 Details Story Dictionary 辣 bitter Heisig's Spicy . . . bundle. Koohii #1 The bitter taste was so awful that I put whole bundle of spice in my mouth to get rid of it. Koohii #2 I'm rather bitter that someone stole my spice bundle. Kunyomi: から.い Onyomi: ラツ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
quick Details Story Dictionary 速 quick My Story A *fag* (bundle) that *moves* quickly wont get shot in the US Koohii #1 Jack be nimble, Jack be quick, Jack jump over the bundled sticks in the middle of the road. (dingomick). Koohii #2 Uh oh. The stork just dropped the bundle of joy in the middle of the road. Somebody save it, quick! Primitives quick, bundle, Chaplin, tree, wood, mouth, road 迅速(じんそく): quick, fast, rapid, swift, prompt 速力(そくりょく): speed 加速(かそく): acceleration 加速度(かそくど): acceleration 急速(きゅうそく): rapid (e.g. progress) 高速(こうそく): high speed, high gear 早速(さっそく): at once, immediately, without delay, promptly 時速(じそく): speed (per hour) 速達(そくたつ): express, special delivery 速度(そくど): speed, velocity, rate 速い(はやい): quick, fast, swift Kunyomi: はや.い、はや-、はや.める、すみ.やか Onyomi: ソク Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 速やか (すみ.やか), 速い (はや.い), 速める (はや.める)	quick 速 画数10 1799 Details Story Dictionary 速 quick My Story A *fag* (bundle) that *moves* quickly wont get shot in the US Koohii #1 Jack be nimble, Jack be quick, Jack jump over the bundled sticks in the middle of the road. (dingomick). Koohii #2 Uh oh. The stork just dropped the bundle of joy in the middle of the road. Somebody save it, quick! Primitives quick, bundle, Chaplin, tree, wood, mouth, road 迅速(じんそく): quick, fast, rapid, swift, prompt 速力(そくりょく): speed 加速(かそく): acceleration 加速度(かそくど): acceleration 急速(きゅうそく): rapid (e.g. progress) 高速(こうそく): high speed, high gear 早速(さっそく): at once, immediately, without delay, promptly 時速(じそく): speed (per hour) 速達(そくたつ): express, special delivery 速度(そくど): speed, velocity, rate 速い(はやい): quick, fast, swift Kunyomi: はや.い、はや-、はや.める、すみ.やか Onyomi: ソク Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 速やか (すみ.やか), 速い (はや.い), 速める (はや.める)
organize Details Story Dictionary 整 organize Heisig's Bundle . . . taskmaster . . . correct. Koohii #1 Recycling in Japan, you have to make sure all your bundles are organized correctly otherwise the taskmasters won´t accept them. Koohii #2 When a bundle of taskmasters organize something chances are it won´t be done correctly because they are constantly arguing. Primitives organise, bundle, Chaplin, tree, wood, mouth, taskmaster, correct, one, ceiling, stop, footprint 整然(せいぜん): orderly, regular, well-organized, trim, accurate 整列(せいれつ): stand in a row, form a line 整える(ととのえる): to put in order, to get ready, to arrange, to adjust 整数(せいすう): integer 整備(せいび): adjustment, completion, consolidation 整理(せいり): sorting, arrangement, adjustment, regulation 調整(ちょうせい): regulation, adjustment, tuning 整う(ととのう): be prepared, be in order, be put in order, be arranged Kunyomi: ととの.える、ととの.う Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 整う (ととの.う), 整える (ととの.える)	organize 整 画数16 1800 Details Story Dictionary 整 organize Heisig's Bundle . . . taskmaster . . . correct. Koohii #1 Recycling in Japan, you have to make sure all your bundles are organized correctly otherwise the taskmasters won´t accept them. Koohii #2 When a bundle of taskmasters organize something chances are it won´t be done correctly because they are constantly arguing. Primitives organise, bundle, Chaplin, tree, wood, mouth, taskmaster, correct, one, ceiling, stop, footprint 整然(せいぜん): orderly, regular, well-organized, trim, accurate 整列(せいれつ): stand in a row, form a line 整える(ととのえる): to put in order, to get ready, to arrange, to adjust 整数(せいすう): integer 整備(せいび): adjustment, completion, consolidation 整理(せいり): sorting, arrangement, adjustment, regulation 調整(ちょうせい): regulation, adjustment, tuning 整う(ととのう): be prepared, be in order, be put in order, be arranged Kunyomi: ととの.える、ととの.う Onyomi: セイ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 整う (ととの.う), 整える (ととの.える)
"saber Details Story Dictionary 剣 saber My Story Saber swallowers *risk* not being able to *ri* (reeeeeeee) as much as possible Koohii #1 If it helps, make the awl primitive ice pick instead. They´re basically the same thing. This kanji is an easy David vs. Goliath story of the icepick vs. the saber... Koohii #2 Every self-respecting ninja knows the story of ""The Awl and the Sabre"". According to the legend, a woman once defended herself by using an awl against a sabre! She used to work all day with that awl. However, the bandit using the sabre had no skill. And thus the awl beat the sabre. And from there the saying goes : ""The sabre is powerless against the awl, if one can´t use the sabre."". Primitives sabre, saber, awl, fit, meeting, umbrella, mouth, person, sword, sabre, saber 真剣(しんけん): seriousness, earnestness Kunyomi: つるぎ Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 剣 (つるぎ)"	"saber 剣 画数10 1801 Details Story Dictionary 剣 saber My Story Saber swallowers *risk* not being able to *ri* (reeeeeeee) as much as possible Koohii #1 If it helps, make the awl primitive ice pick instead. They´re basically the same thing. This kanji is an easy David vs. Goliath story of the icepick vs. the saber... Koohii #2 Every self-respecting ninja knows the story of ""The Awl and the Sabre"". According to the legend, a woman once defended herself by using an awl against a sabre! She used to work all day with that awl. However, the bandit using the sabre had no skill. And thus the awl beat the sabre. And from there the saying goes : ""The sabre is powerless against the awl, if one can´t use the sabre."". Primitives sabre, saber, awl, fit, meeting, umbrella, mouth, person, sword, sabre, saber 真剣(しんけん): seriousness, earnestness Kunyomi: つるぎ Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 剣 (つるぎ)"
precipitous Details Story Dictionary 険 precipitous Heisig's Pinnacle . . . awl. Koohii #1 The rock climber trying to get up to the pinnacle is dangling from a precipitous edge, hanging only one with his icepick. Koohii #2 Well I have someone climbing an inflatable precipitous pinnacle. Once at the top it is so precipitous that the person is afraid to climb down and instead punctures the inflatable pinnacle with an awl to get safely and slowly back to the ground. Primitives precipitous, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, awl, fit, meeting, umbrella, mouth, person 保険(ほけん): insurance, guarantee 険しい(けわしい): inaccessible place, impregnable position, steep place, sharp eyes 冒険(ぼうけん): risk, venture, adventure 危険(きけん): danger Kunyomi: けわ.しい Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 険しい (けわ.しい)	precipitous 険 画数11 1802 Details Story Dictionary 険 precipitous Heisig's Pinnacle . . . awl. Koohii #1 The rock climber trying to get up to the pinnacle is dangling from a precipitous edge, hanging only one with his icepick. Koohii #2 Well I have someone climbing an inflatable precipitous pinnacle. Once at the top it is so precipitous that the person is afraid to climb down and instead punctures the inflatable pinnacle with an awl to get safely and slowly back to the ground. Primitives precipitous, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, awl, fit, meeting, umbrella, mouth, person 保険(ほけん): insurance, guarantee 険しい(けわしい): inaccessible place, impregnable position, steep place, sharp eyes 冒険(ぼうけん): risk, venture, adventure 危険(きけん): danger Kunyomi: けわ.しい Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 険しい (けわ.しい)
"examination Details Story Dictionary 検 examination Heisig's Tree . . . awl. Koohii #1 After intense cross-examination from the prosecutor, the tree confessed to murdering the wood-pecker with an awl... ""He just kept at it, he kept poking at me with that beak, so I thought I'd see how HE liked it!!"" The autopsy examination revealed at least a dozen puncture wounds, what a brutal case. Koohii #2 Don´t confuse with exam (#1278), test (#354), evaluate (#1487). Think of examination as a doctor´s examination. You´re having problems getting wood in bed. You go in for a doctor´s examination. The doctor shoves an icepick into your manhood as part of the examination. Primitives examination, tree, wood, awl, fit, meeting, umbrella, mouth, person 検事(けんじ): public prosecutor 探検(たんけん): exploration, expedition 点検(てんけん): inspection, examination, checking 検査(けんさ): inspection (e.g. customs, factory), examination 検討(けんとう): consideration, examination, investigation, study, scrutiny Kunyomi: しら.べる Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"examination 検 画数12 1803 Details Story Dictionary 検 examination Heisig's Tree . . . awl. Koohii #1 After intense cross-examination from the prosecutor, the tree confessed to murdering the wood-pecker with an awl... ""He just kept at it, he kept poking at me with that beak, so I thought I'd see how HE liked it!!"" The autopsy examination revealed at least a dozen puncture wounds, what a brutal case. Koohii #2 Don´t confuse with exam (#1278), test (#354), evaluate (#1487). Think of examination as a doctor´s examination. You´re having problems getting wood in bed. You go in for a doctor´s examination. The doctor shoves an icepick into your manhood as part of the examination. Primitives examination, tree, wood, awl, fit, meeting, umbrella, mouth, person 検事(けんじ): public prosecutor 探検(たんけん): exploration, expedition 点検(てんけん): inspection, examination, checking 検査(けんさ): inspection (e.g. customs, factory), examination 検討(けんとう): consideration, examination, investigation, study, scrutiny Kunyomi: しら.べる Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
frugal Details Story Dictionary 倹 frugal Heisig's Person . . . awl. Koohii #1 Mr. T is as frugal as they come. He uses his one ice pick for everything: to eat, pick his teeth, clean his toilet, kill people, cook, etc. Koohii #2 Khatzumoto needs to be frugal after spending all his money on Japanese media and none on food. His waist has shrunk and he needs a new belt, but being frugal he just punches another hole with his awl. Primitives frugal, person, awl, fit, meeting, umbrella, mouth, person, person2 倹約(けんやく): thrift, economy, frugality Kunyomi: つま.しい、つづまやか Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	frugal 倹 画数10 1804 Details Story Dictionary 倹 frugal Heisig's Person . . . awl. Koohii #1 Mr. T is as frugal as they come. He uses his one ice pick for everything: to eat, pick his teeth, clean his toilet, kill people, cook, etc. Koohii #2 Khatzumoto needs to be frugal after spending all his money on Japanese media and none on food. His waist has shrunk and he needs a new belt, but being frugal he just punches another hole with his awl. Primitives frugal, person, awl, fit, meeting, umbrella, mouth, person, person2 倹約(けんやく): thrift, economy, frugality Kunyomi: つま.しい、つづまやか Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"heavy Details Story Dictionary 重 heavy Heisig's Thousand . . . ri. Note how the long vertical stroke doubles up to serve both elements. Koohii #1 The first computer in the world was as heavy as thousand computers are now. Koohii #2 To me it looks like a car with two extra wheels, like a truck. As it is a very heavy vehicle I suggest an image of a huge mining truck, like the yellow Liebherr T282B. Remember that the first ""wheel"" is a bit bent. http://www.primidi.com/2004/06/21.html. Primitives heavy, thousand, computer, rice field, brains, soil, dirt, ground 重(え): -fold, -ply 重なる(おもなる): main, principal, important 重役(おもやく): heavy responsibilities, director 重んじる(おもんじる): to respect, to honor, to esteem, to prize 重んずる(おもんずる): to honor, to respect, to esteem, to prize 重複(じゅうふく): duplication, repetition, overlapping, redundancy, restoration 重宝(じゅうほう): priceless treasure, convenience, usefulness 比重(ひじゅう): specific gravity 重たい(おもたい): heavy, massive, serious, important, severe, oppressed 重なる(かさなる): be piled up, lie on top of one another, overlap each other 重ねる(かさねる): pile up, add, repeat 貴重(きちょう): precious, valuable 厳重(げんじゅう): strict, severe, firm, strong, secure, rigour 重視(じゅうし): importance, stress, serious consideration 重体(じゅうたい): seriously ill, serious condition, critical state 重大(じゅうだい): serious, important, grave, weighty 重点(じゅうてん): important point, lay stress on, emphasis, colon 重役(じゅうやく): heavy responsibilities, director 重要(じゅうよう): important, momentous, essential, principal, major 重量(じゅうりょう): weight, heavyweight boxer 重力(じゅうりょく): gravity 慎重(しんちょう): discretion, prudence 尊重(そんちょう): respect, esteem, regard 重い(おもい): heavy, massive, serious, important, severe, oppressed Kunyomi: え、おも.い、おも.り、おも.なう、かさ.ねる、かさ.なる、おも Onyomi: ジュウ、チョウ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 重量 (じゅうりょう), 重大 (じゅうだい), 二重 (にじゅう), 重 (え), 重い (おも.い), 重なる (かさ.なる), 重ねる (かさ.ねる)"	"heavy 重 画数9 1805 Details Story Dictionary 重 heavy Heisig's Thousand . . . ri. Note how the long vertical stroke doubles up to serve both elements. Koohii #1 The first computer in the world was as heavy as thousand computers are now. Koohii #2 To me it looks like a car with two extra wheels, like a truck. As it is a very heavy vehicle I suggest an image of a huge mining truck, like the yellow Liebherr T282B. Remember that the first ""wheel"" is a bit bent. http://www.primidi.com/2004/06/21.html. Primitives heavy, thousand, computer, rice field, brains, soil, dirt, ground 重(え): -fold, -ply 重なる(おもなる): main, principal, important 重役(おもやく): heavy responsibilities, director 重んじる(おもんじる): to respect, to honor, to esteem, to prize 重んずる(おもんずる): to honor, to respect, to esteem, to prize 重複(じゅうふく): duplication, repetition, overlapping, redundancy, restoration 重宝(じゅうほう): priceless treasure, convenience, usefulness 比重(ひじゅう): specific gravity 重たい(おもたい): heavy, massive, serious, important, severe, oppressed 重なる(かさなる): be piled up, lie on top of one another, overlap each other 重ねる(かさねる): pile up, add, repeat 貴重(きちょう): precious, valuable 厳重(げんじゅう): strict, severe, firm, strong, secure, rigour 重視(じゅうし): importance, stress, serious consideration 重体(じゅうたい): seriously ill, serious condition, critical state 重大(じゅうだい): serious, important, grave, weighty 重点(じゅうてん): important point, lay stress on, emphasis, colon 重役(じゅうやく): heavy responsibilities, director 重要(じゅうよう): important, momentous, essential, principal, major 重量(じゅうりょう): weight, heavyweight boxer 重力(じゅうりょく): gravity 慎重(しんちょう): discretion, prudence 尊重(そんちょう): respect, esteem, regard 重い(おもい): heavy, massive, serious, important, severe, oppressed Kunyomi: え、おも.い、おも.り、おも.なう、かさ.ねる、かさ.なる、おも Onyomi: ジュウ、チョウ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 重量 (じゅうりょう), 重大 (じゅうだい), 二重 (にじゅう), 重 (え), 重い (おも.い), 重なる (かさ.なる), 重ねる (かさ.ねる)"
move Details Story Dictionary 動 move Heisig's Heavy . . . muscle. Koohii #1 Even though the furniture is heavy, it´ll be easy to move with all the muscles that he has. Koohii #2 His MUSCLES are so HEAVY, he barely can move...thats ironic. Primitives move, heavy, thousand, ri, computer, power, muscle, arnold 異動(いどう): a change 動き(うごき): movement, activity, trend, development, change 動く(うごく): to move, to stir, to shift, to shake, to swing, to operate, to run, to go, to work, to be touched, to be influenced, to waver, to fluctuate, to vary, to change, to be transferred 自動詞(じどうし): intransitive verb (no direct obj) 出動(しゅつどう): sailing, marching, going out 助動詞(じょどうし): auxiliary verb 振動(しんどう): oscillation, vibration 騒動(そうどう): strife, riot, rebellion 他動詞(たどうし): transitive verb (direct obj) 動員(どういん): mobilization 動機(どうき): motive, incentive 動向(どうこう): trend, tendency, movement, attitude 動的(どうてき): dynamic, kinetic 動揺(どうよう): disturbance, unrest, shaking, trembling, pitching, rolling, oscillation, agitation, excitement, commotion 動力(どうりょく): power, motive power, dynamic force 不動産(ふどうさん): real estate 変動(へんどう): change, fluctuation 暴動(ぼうどう): insurrection, rebellion, revolt, riot, uprising 移動(いどう): removal, migration, movement 動かす(うごかす): move, shift, set in motion, operate, inspire,, rouse, ,influence, mobilize, deny, change 運動(うんどう): motion, exercise 活動(かつどう): action, activity 感動(かんどう): being deeply moved, deep emotion, excitement, impression 形容動詞(けいようどうし): adjectival noun, quasi-adjective 行動(こうどう): action, conduct, behaviour, mobilization 自動(じどう): automatic 動作(どうさ): action, movements, motions, bearing, behaviour, manners 動詞(どうし): verb 動く(うごく): move 動物園(どうぶつえん): zoo 自動車(じどうしゃ): automobile 動物(どうぶつ): animal Kunyomi: うご.く、うご.かす Onyomi: ドウ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 動かす (うご.かす), 動く (うご.く)	move 動 画数11 1806 Details Story Dictionary 動 move Heisig's Heavy . . . muscle. Koohii #1 Even though the furniture is heavy, it´ll be easy to move with all the muscles that he has. Koohii #2 His MUSCLES are so HEAVY, he barely can move...thats ironic. Primitives move, heavy, thousand, ri, computer, power, muscle, arnold 異動(いどう): a change 動き(うごき): movement, activity, trend, development, change 動く(うごく): to move, to stir, to shift, to shake, to swing, to operate, to run, to go, to work, to be touched, to be influenced, to waver, to fluctuate, to vary, to change, to be transferred 自動詞(じどうし): intransitive verb (no direct obj) 出動(しゅつどう): sailing, marching, going out 助動詞(じょどうし): auxiliary verb 振動(しんどう): oscillation, vibration 騒動(そうどう): strife, riot, rebellion 他動詞(たどうし): transitive verb (direct obj) 動員(どういん): mobilization 動機(どうき): motive, incentive 動向(どうこう): trend, tendency, movement, attitude 動的(どうてき): dynamic, kinetic 動揺(どうよう): disturbance, unrest, shaking, trembling, pitching, rolling, oscillation, agitation, excitement, commotion 動力(どうりょく): power, motive power, dynamic force 不動産(ふどうさん): real estate 変動(へんどう): change, fluctuation 暴動(ぼうどう): insurrection, rebellion, revolt, riot, uprising 移動(いどう): removal, migration, movement 動かす(うごかす): move, shift, set in motion, operate, inspire,, rouse, ,influence, mobilize, deny, change 運動(うんどう): motion, exercise 活動(かつどう): action, activity 感動(かんどう): being deeply moved, deep emotion, excitement, impression 形容動詞(けいようどうし): adjectival noun, quasi-adjective 行動(こうどう): action, conduct, behaviour, mobilization 自動(じどう): automatic 動作(どうさ): action, movements, motions, bearing, behaviour, manners 動詞(どうし): verb 動く(うごく): move 動物園(どうぶつえん): zoo 自動車(じどうしゃ): automobile 動物(どうぶつ): animal Kunyomi: うご.く、うご.かす Onyomi: ドウ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 動かす (うご.かす), 動く (うご.く)
tumor Details Story Dictionary 腫 tumor Heisig's Flesh . . . heavy. Koohii #1 A tumor is a useless body part that is nothing but heavy. Koohii #2 When flesh clumps together and gets heavy, it forms a tumor. Primitives tumour, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, heavy, thousand, ri, computer 腫れる(はれる): to swell (from inflammation), to become swollen Kunyomi: は.れる、は.れ、は.らす、く.む、はれもの Onyomi: シュ、ショウ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 腫らす (は.らす), 腫れる (は.れる)	tumor 腫 画数13 1807 Details Story Dictionary 腫 tumor Heisig's Flesh . . . heavy. Koohii #1 A tumor is a useless body part that is nothing but heavy. Koohii #2 When flesh clumps together and gets heavy, it forms a tumor. Primitives tumour, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, heavy, thousand, ri, computer 腫れる(はれる): to swell (from inflammation), to become swollen Kunyomi: は.れる、は.れ、は.らす、く.む、はれもの Onyomi: シュ、ショウ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 腫らす (は.らす), 腫れる (は.れる)
meritorious deed Details Story Dictionary 勲 meritorious deed Heisig's Move . . . oven fire. So as not to confuse this kanji with the general character for merit (Frame 1369), you may associate the key word with military decorations and medals of distinction, both of which it is used for. Koohii #1 A meritorious deed? Like moving a damsel in distress out of a fire, maybe. Koohii #2 Prometheus did a meritous deed for humanity by MOVING FIRE from the gods to us humans. Primitives meritorious deed, move, heavy, thousand, ri, computer, power, muscle, arnold, oven-fire, barbecue Kunyomi: いさお Onyomi: クン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	meritorious deed 勲 画数15 1808 Details Story Dictionary 勲 meritorious deed Heisig's Move . . . oven fire. So as not to confuse this kanji with the general character for merit (Frame 1369), you may associate the key word with military decorations and medals of distinction, both of which it is used for. Koohii #1 A meritorious deed? Like moving a damsel in distress out of a fire, maybe. Koohii #2 Prometheus did a meritous deed for humanity by MOVING FIRE from the gods to us humans. Primitives meritorious deed, move, heavy, thousand, ri, computer, power, muscle, arnold, oven-fire, barbecue Kunyomi: いさお Onyomi: クン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"work Details Story Dictionary 働 work Heisig's Person . . . move. Do not confuse with labor (Frame 924). Koohii #1 A person who moves something is doing work, physically speaking. Koohii #2 Mr T, move. Mr Ts new exercise video called ""Work it suckaz"". Here is shouting ""move it work it move work it!"". Primitives work, person, move, heavy, thousand, ri, computer, power, muscle, arnold 働(どう): work, labor 共働き(ともばたらき): dual income 働き(はたらき): work, workings, activity, ability, talent, function, labor, action, operation, movement, motion, conjugation, inflection, achievement 労働(ろうどう): manual labor, toil, work 働く(はたらく): work, to labor, do, to act, commit, practise, work on, come into play, be conjugated, reduce the price Kunyomi: はたら.く Onyomi: ドウ、リュク、リキ、ロク、リョク Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 働く (はたら.く)"	"work 働 画数13 1809 Details Story Dictionary 働 work Heisig's Person . . . move. Do not confuse with labor (Frame 924). Koohii #1 A person who moves something is doing work, physically speaking. Koohii #2 Mr T, move. Mr Ts new exercise video called ""Work it suckaz"". Here is shouting ""move it work it move work it!"". Primitives work, person, move, heavy, thousand, ri, computer, power, muscle, arnold 働(どう): work, labor 共働き(ともばたらき): dual income 働き(はたらき): work, workings, activity, ability, talent, function, labor, action, operation, movement, motion, conjugation, inflection, achievement 労働(ろうどう): manual labor, toil, work 働く(はたらく): work, to labor, do, to act, commit, practise, work on, come into play, be conjugated, reduce the price Kunyomi: はたら.く Onyomi: ドウ、リュク、リキ、ロク、リョク Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 働く (はたら.く)"
"species Details Story Dictionary 種 species My Story [Wheat + Heavy] *Wheat* is eaten by all the *heavy* species (cows, horses, Americans, etc.) Koohii #1 Our species has a wheat heavy diet... Koohii #2 This kanji also means ""Seed."" STORY: Scientists have developed a new SPECIES of WHEAT that has large HEAVY seeds. Now we can feed the world. Primitives species, wheat, cereal, heavy, thousand, ri, computer 各種(かくしゅ): every kind, all sorts 種々(くさぐさ): variety 種(しゅ): kind, variety, species 品種(ひんしゅ): brand, kind, description 一種(いっしゅ): species, kind, variety 種類(しゅるい): variety, kind, type, category, counter for different sorts of things 人種(じんしゅ): race (of people) 種(たね): seed, kind, variety, quality, tone, material, matter, subject, theme, (news) copy, cause, source, trick, secret, inside story Kunyomi: たね、-ぐさ Onyomi: シュ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 種 (たね)"	"species 種 画数14 1810 Details Story Dictionary 種 species My Story [Wheat + Heavy] *Wheat* is eaten by all the *heavy* species (cows, horses, Americans, etc.) Koohii #1 Our species has a wheat heavy diet... Koohii #2 This kanji also means ""Seed."" STORY: Scientists have developed a new SPECIES of WHEAT that has large HEAVY seeds. Now we can feed the world. Primitives species, wheat, cereal, heavy, thousand, ri, computer 各種(かくしゅ): every kind, all sorts 種々(くさぐさ): variety 種(しゅ): kind, variety, species 品種(ひんしゅ): brand, kind, description 一種(いっしゅ): species, kind, variety 種類(しゅるい): variety, kind, type, category, counter for different sorts of things 人種(じんしゅ): race (of people) 種(たね): seed, kind, variety, quality, tone, material, matter, subject, theme, (news) copy, cause, source, trick, secret, inside story Kunyomi: たね、-ぐさ Onyomi: シュ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 種 (たね)"
collide Details Story Dictionary 衝 collide Heisig's Boulevard . . . heavy. Koohii #1 Two heavy trucks in a game of chicken collide while racing toward each other on the boulevard. Koohii #2 衝 【しょう】 (n) (1) important point (e.g. on a route); (2) important role (responsibility, etc.); (3) (astronomical) opposition. STORY:Two HEAVY trucks are playing a game of chicken on the BOULEVARD. However, they both missed the IMPORTANT POINT: that they have to turn in different directions. Naturally, they COLLIDE when they both turn in the same direction. (ty dingomick). Primitives collide, boulevard, going, heavy, thousand, ri, computer 衝撃(しょうげき): shock, crash, impact, ballistic 衝突(しょうとつ): collision, conflict Kunyomi: つ.く Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	collide 衝 画数15 1811 Details Story Dictionary 衝 collide Heisig's Boulevard . . . heavy. Koohii #1 Two heavy trucks in a game of chicken collide while racing toward each other on the boulevard. Koohii #2 衝 【しょう】 (n) (1) important point (e.g. on a route); (2) important role (responsibility, etc.); (3) (astronomical) opposition. STORY:Two HEAVY trucks are playing a game of chicken on the BOULEVARD. However, they both missed the IMPORTANT POINT: that they have to turn in different directions. Naturally, they COLLIDE when they both turn in the same direction. (ty dingomick). Primitives collide, boulevard, going, heavy, thousand, ri, computer 衝撃(しょうげき): shock, crash, impact, ballistic 衝突(しょうとつ): collision, conflict Kunyomi: つ.く Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
fragrant Details Story Dictionary 薫 fragrant Heisig's Flowers . . . heavy . . . oven fire. Do not confuse with incense (Frame 977) or perfumed (Frame 532). Koohii #1 Do you know how they make those FRAGRANT air fresheners? Well you take some FLOWERS, compress them with a HEAVY weight, and put them on an OVEN FIRE for a while... (cmp perfume (#493)). Koohii #2 The heavier the flowers the stronger their fragrance when you burn them. Primitives fragrant, flowers, heavy, thousand, ri, computer, oven-fire, barbecue Kunyomi: かお.る Onyomi: クン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 薫る (かお.る)	fragrant 薫 画数16 1812 Details Story Dictionary 薫 fragrant Heisig's Flowers . . . heavy . . . oven fire. Do not confuse with incense (Frame 977) or perfumed (Frame 532). Koohii #1 Do you know how they make those FRAGRANT air fresheners? Well you take some FLOWERS, compress them with a HEAVY weight, and put them on an OVEN FIRE for a while... (cmp perfume (#493)). Koohii #2 The heavier the flowers the stronger their fragrance when you burn them. Primitives fragrant, flowers, heavy, thousand, ri, computer, oven-fire, barbecue Kunyomi: かお.る Onyomi: クン Lesson: 43 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 薫る (かお.る)
ill Details Story Dictionary 病 ill Heisig's Sickness . . . third class. Koohii #1 Caveman got ill after flying third class. The cabin air and food got to him. (Primitive: these all got MUCH easier when using CAVEMAN instead. ). Koohii #2 If you hang around a third class hospital, you´ll get ill with the sickness everyone else has. Primitives ill, sickness, hospital, third class, one, ceiling, inside 臆病(おくびょう): cowardice, timidity 発病(はつびょう): attack (disease) 病(やまい): illness, disease 病む(やむ): to fall ill, to be ill 看病(かんびょう): nursing (a patient) 病院(びょういん): hospital 病気(びょうき): illness, disease, sickness Kunyomi: や.む、-や.み、やまい Onyomi: ビョウ、ヘイ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 病気 (びょうき), 病根 (びょうこん), 看病 (かんびょう), 病む (や.む), 病 (やまい)	ill 病 画数10 1813 Details Story Dictionary 病 ill Heisig's Sickness . . . third class. Koohii #1 Caveman got ill after flying third class. The cabin air and food got to him. (Primitive: these all got MUCH easier when using CAVEMAN instead. ). Koohii #2 If you hang around a third class hospital, you´ll get ill with the sickness everyone else has. Primitives ill, sickness, hospital, third class, one, ceiling, inside 臆病(おくびょう): cowardice, timidity 発病(はつびょう): attack (disease) 病(やまい): illness, disease 病む(やむ): to fall ill, to be ill 看病(かんびょう): nursing (a patient) 病院(びょういん): hospital 病気(びょうき): illness, disease, sickness Kunyomi: や.む、-や.み、やまい Onyomi: ビョウ、ヘイ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 病気 (びょうき), 病根 (びょうこん), 看病 (かんびょう), 病む (や.む), 病 (やまい)
"stupid Details Story Dictionary 痴 stupid Heisig's Know . . . sickness. Koohii #1 Of course caveman is stupid. He doesn´t know anything. He´s a caveman! Koohii #2 This kanji shows stupidity as a ""knowledge-sickness"". Everybody can be stupid at times, and it usually happens because of a lack of experience. Hence the stupidity is a ""knowledge sickness"". Primitives stupid, sickness, hospital, know, dart, drop, heavens, mouth 愚痴(ぐち): idle complaint, grumble Kunyomi: し.れる、おろか Onyomi: チ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"stupid 痴 画数13 1814 Details Story Dictionary 痴 stupid Heisig's Know . . . sickness. Koohii #1 Of course caveman is stupid. He doesn´t know anything. He´s a caveman! Koohii #2 This kanji shows stupidity as a ""knowledge-sickness"". Everybody can be stupid at times, and it usually happens because of a lack of experience. Hence the stupidity is a ""knowledge sickness"". Primitives stupid, sickness, hospital, know, dart, drop, heavens, mouth 愚痴(ぐち): idle complaint, grumble Kunyomi: し.れる、おろか Onyomi: チ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
pox Details Story Dictionary 痘 pox Heisig's Sickness . . . beans. Koohii #1 Caveman has horrible pox. They look like edamame beans oozing bight green paste. Koohii #2 Pox is a sickness which symptoms include bean-shaped bumps on the skin. Primitives pox, sickness, hospital, beans, table, one, mouth Kunyomi: Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	pox 痘 画数12 1815 Details Story Dictionary 痘 pox Heisig's Sickness . . . beans. Koohii #1 Caveman has horrible pox. They look like edamame beans oozing bight green paste. Koohii #2 Pox is a sickness which symptoms include bean-shaped bumps on the skin. Primitives pox, sickness, hospital, beans, table, one, mouth Kunyomi: Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
symptoms Details Story Dictionary 症 symptoms Heisig's Sickness . . . correct. Koohii #1 Once you have all the symptoms right, you have correctly identified the sickness. Koohii #2 A sickness can only be correctly diagnosed if the symptoms are identified correctly. Primitives symptoms, sickness, hospital, correct, one, ceiling, stop, footprint 症(しょう): illness 症状(しょうじょう): symptoms, condition Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	symptoms 症 画数10 1816 Details Story Dictionary 症 symptoms Heisig's Sickness . . . correct. Koohii #1 Once you have all the symptoms right, you have correctly identified the sickness. Koohii #2 A sickness can only be correctly diagnosed if the symptoms are identified correctly. Primitives symptoms, sickness, hospital, correct, one, ceiling, stop, footprint 症(しょう): illness 症状(しょうじょう): symptoms, condition Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
carbuncle Details Story Dictionary 瘍 carbuncle Heisig's Sickness . . . piggy bank. Koohii #1 His sickness caused numerous carbuncles, which when emptied by the doctors also emptied his piggy bank. Koohii #2 The witches piggy bank was cursed with a spell causing any thief who stole it's contents to fall ill. The illness would result in the victim being covered from head to toe in a mass of carbuncles. Crime doesn't pay! Kunyomi: かさ Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	carbuncle 瘍 画数14 1817 Details Story Dictionary 瘍 carbuncle Heisig's Sickness . . . piggy bank. Koohii #1 His sickness caused numerous carbuncles, which when emptied by the doctors also emptied his piggy bank. Koohii #2 The witches piggy bank was cursed with a spell causing any thief who stole it's contents to fall ill. The illness would result in the victim being covered from head to toe in a mass of carbuncles. Crime doesn't pay! Kunyomi: かさ Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
lose weight Details Story Dictionary 痩 lose weight Heisig's Sickness . . . monkey . . . crotch. Koohii #1 The most horrific way to lose weight is from that devastating sickness that came from a monkey's crotch. Koohii #2 The poor monkey obviously had a sickness. He was scratching his crotch the whole time and when he started to lose weight heavily, the caretakers knew they couldn´t save him anymore. Primitives lose weight, sickness, hospital, Buddha’s hand, monkey, sun, day, stick, crotch 痩せる(やせる): lose weight Kunyomi: や.せる Onyomi: ソウ、チュウ、シュウ、シュ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 痩せる (や.せる)	lose weight 痩 画数12 1818 Details Story Dictionary 痩 lose weight Heisig's Sickness . . . monkey . . . crotch. Koohii #1 The most horrific way to lose weight is from that devastating sickness that came from a monkey's crotch. Koohii #2 The poor monkey obviously had a sickness. He was scratching his crotch the whole time and when he started to lose weight heavily, the caretakers knew they couldn´t save him anymore. Primitives lose weight, sickness, hospital, Buddha’s hand, monkey, sun, day, stick, crotch 痩せる(やせる): lose weight Kunyomi: や.せる Onyomi: ソウ、チュウ、シュウ、シュ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 痩せる (や.せる)
"rapidly Details Story Dictionary 疾 rapidly Heisig's Be sure to keep this character distinct from quick (Frame 1799) and swift (Frame 298). Picture a succession of poison darts (the sort that inflict sickness) flying out rapid-fire from a blowgun, so that ""rapid-fire"" can conjure up the proper image. Koohii #1 I picture a sick caveman, and two people rapidly blowing darts at him. One is blowing poison darts, the other is blowing antidote darts. Will the sick caveman live or die? Depends on how rapidly they fire. Koohii #2 If shot with a poison dart, sickness develops rapidly. Primitives rapidly, sickness, hospital, dart, drop, heavens Kunyomi: はや.い Onyomi: シツ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"rapidly 疾 画数10 1819 Details Story Dictionary 疾 rapidly Heisig's Be sure to keep this character distinct from quick (Frame 1799) and swift (Frame 298). Picture a succession of poison darts (the sort that inflict sickness) flying out rapid-fire from a blowgun, so that ""rapid-fire"" can conjure up the proper image. Koohii #1 I picture a sick caveman, and two people rapidly blowing darts at him. One is blowing poison darts, the other is blowing antidote darts. Will the sick caveman live or die? Depends on how rapidly they fire. Koohii #2 If shot with a poison dart, sickness develops rapidly. Primitives rapidly, sickness, hospital, dart, drop, heavens Kunyomi: はや.い Onyomi: シツ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
envy Details Story Dictionary 嫉 envy Heisig's Woman . . . rapidly. Koohii #1 If you go through women rapidly you will be the object of envy. Koohii #2 Ah, puberty ... the girl that starts her journey towards womanhood the most rapidly will become the subject of envy from all her classmates. Primitives envy, woman, rapidly, sickness, hospital, dart, drop, heavens 嫉妬(しっと): jealousy Kunyomi: そね.む、ねた.む、にく.む Onyomi: シツ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	envy 嫉 画数13 1820 Details Story Dictionary 嫉 envy Heisig's Woman . . . rapidly. Koohii #1 If you go through women rapidly you will be the object of envy. Koohii #2 Ah, puberty ... the girl that starts her journey towards womanhood the most rapidly will become the subject of envy from all her classmates. Primitives envy, woman, rapidly, sickness, hospital, dart, drop, heavens 嫉妬(しっと): jealousy Kunyomi: そね.む、ねた.む、にく.む Onyomi: シツ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
diarrhea Details Story Dictionary 痢 diarrhea Heisig's Sickness . . . profit. Koohii #1 For a country full of pay-per-use public toilets, sudden diarrhea is certainly the most profitable sickness! Koohii #2 Caveman doesn´t have any skills, so he sells his diarrhea as chili to peasant wheat farmers for an amazing profit. Primitives diarrhea, sickness, hospital, profit, wheat, cereal, sword, sabre, saber 下痢(げり): diarrhoea Kunyomi: Onyomi: リ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	diarrhea 痢 画数12 1821 Details Story Dictionary 痢 diarrhea Heisig's Sickness . . . profit. Koohii #1 For a country full of pay-per-use public toilets, sudden diarrhea is certainly the most profitable sickness! Koohii #2 Caveman doesn´t have any skills, so he sells his diarrhea as chili to peasant wheat farmers for an amazing profit. Primitives diarrhea, sickness, hospital, profit, wheat, cereal, sword, sabre, saber 下痢(げり): diarrhoea Kunyomi: Onyomi: リ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
scar Details Story Dictionary 痕 scar Heisig's Sickness . . . silver. Koohii #1 I suffer from silver-sickness, that is, if anything made of silver even touches my skin it leaves a scar. Koohii #2 I got sick and needed surgery, but the silver lining is that now I have these awesome scars I can show off! Primitives scar, sickness, hospital, silver Kunyomi: あと Onyomi: コン Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 痕 (あと)	scar 痕 画数11 1822 Details Story Dictionary 痕 scar Heisig's Sickness . . . silver. Koohii #1 I suffer from silver-sickness, that is, if anything made of silver even touches my skin it leaves a scar. Koohii #2 I got sick and needed surgery, but the silver lining is that now I have these awesome scars I can show off! Primitives scar, sickness, hospital, silver Kunyomi: あと Onyomi: コン Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 痕 (あと)
tired Details Story Dictionary 疲 tired Heisig's Sickness . . . pelt. Koohii #1 I picture an exhausted sick caveman snuggling up in a comfy pelt blanket. Koohii #2 Your body feels tired when you have a sickness. All you want to do is wrap yourself up in a nice warm pelt and get better. Primitives exhausted, tired, sickness, hospital, pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook 疲労(ひろう): fatigue, weariness 疲れ(つかれ): tiredness, fatigue 疲れる(つかれる): to get tired, to tire Kunyomi: つか.れる、-づか.れ、つか.らす Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 疲らす (つか.らす), 疲れる (つか.れる)	tired 疲 画数10 1823 Details Story Dictionary 疲 tired Heisig's Sickness . . . pelt. Koohii #1 I picture an exhausted sick caveman snuggling up in a comfy pelt blanket. Koohii #2 Your body feels tired when you have a sickness. All you want to do is wrap yourself up in a nice warm pelt and get better. Primitives exhausted, tired, sickness, hospital, pelt, branch, ten, needle, crotch, hook 疲労(ひろう): fatigue, weariness 疲れ(つかれ): tiredness, fatigue 疲れる(つかれる): to get tired, to tire Kunyomi: つか.れる、-づか.れ、つか.らす Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 疲らす (つか.らす), 疲れる (つか.れる)
"epidemic Details Story Dictionary 疫 epidemic Heisig's Sickness . . . missile. Koohii #1 Sickness-missiles are being engineered by bio-terrorists to spread epidemics all over the world. Imagine seeing footage of a place where those sickness-missiles are built : rows after rows of missiles, and if you look closely on each is inscribed in tiny letters the name of different sickness such as ""flu"", ""plague"", etc. Koohii #2 SICKNESS / MISSILE ** Hint: True fact about biochemical warfare: in the medieval and ancient world, SICKNESS in the form of the corpses of those who had died from some EPIDEMIC or plague were often hurled at the enemy via the crude MISSILE launchers of the time. [C]. Primitives epidemic, sickness, hospital, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch Kunyomi: Onyomi: エキ、ヤク Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 疫病 (えきびょう), 悪疫 (あくえき), 防疫 (ぼうえき)"	"epidemic 疫 画数9 1824 Details Story Dictionary 疫 epidemic Heisig's Sickness . . . missile. Koohii #1 Sickness-missiles are being engineered by bio-terrorists to spread epidemics all over the world. Imagine seeing footage of a place where those sickness-missiles are built : rows after rows of missiles, and if you look closely on each is inscribed in tiny letters the name of different sickness such as ""flu"", ""plague"", etc. Koohii #2 SICKNESS / MISSILE ** Hint: True fact about biochemical warfare: in the medieval and ancient world, SICKNESS in the form of the corpses of those who had died from some EPIDEMIC or plague were often hurled at the enemy via the crude MISSILE launchers of the time. [C]. Primitives epidemic, sickness, hospital, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch Kunyomi: Onyomi: エキ、ヤク Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 疫病 (えきびょう), 悪疫 (あくえき), 防疫 (ぼうえき)"
pain Details Story Dictionary 痛 pain Heisig's Sickness . . . chop-seal . . . utilize. Koohii #1 Think of the phrase pain in the xxx. Then think of a pogostick up your xxx. That's painful, right? The real question is why a pogostick is up your xxx. That's sick, dude. Koohii #2 When I was feeling sick my mum said I shouldn´t go out to play on my pogo stick until I felt better. Well I wasn´t strong enough to stay up on it and so fell over and have the pain to prove my mum right. Primitives pain, sickness, hospital, pogo stick, chop-seal, hanko, utilise, utilize 痛む(いたむ): to hurt, to feel a pain, to be injured 痛める(いためる): to hurt, to injure, to cause pain, to worry, to bother, to afflict, to be grieved over 痛感(つうかん): feeling keenly, fully realizing 痛切(つうせつ): keen, acute 痛み(いたみ): pain, ache, sore, grief, distress 苦痛(くつう): pain, agony 頭痛(ずつう): headache 痛い(いたい): painful Kunyomi: いた.い、いた.む、いた.ましい、いた.める Onyomi: ツウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 痛い (いた.い), 痛む (いた.む), 痛める (いた.める)	pain 痛 画数12 1825 Details Story Dictionary 痛 pain Heisig's Sickness . . . chop-seal . . . utilize. Koohii #1 Think of the phrase pain in the xxx. Then think of a pogostick up your xxx. That's painful, right? The real question is why a pogostick is up your xxx. That's sick, dude. Koohii #2 When I was feeling sick my mum said I shouldn´t go out to play on my pogo stick until I felt better. Well I wasn´t strong enough to stay up on it and so fell over and have the pain to prove my mum right. Primitives pain, sickness, hospital, pogo stick, chop-seal, hanko, utilise, utilize 痛む(いたむ): to hurt, to feel a pain, to be injured 痛める(いためる): to hurt, to injure, to cause pain, to worry, to bother, to afflict, to be grieved over 痛感(つうかん): feeling keenly, fully realizing 痛切(つうせつ): keen, acute 痛み(いたみ): pain, ache, sore, grief, distress 苦痛(くつう): pain, agony 頭痛(ずつう): headache 痛い(いたい): painful Kunyomi: いた.い、いた.む、いた.ましい、いた.める Onyomi: ツウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 痛い (いた.い), 痛む (いた.む), 痛める (いた.める)
mannerism Details Story Dictionary 癖 mannerism Heisig's Sickness . . . ketchup. Koohii #1 Caveman has a bad mannerism of putting ketchup on everything he eats. I guess that´s ok since raw mammoth can´t be too good... Koohii #2 This mannerism is a sickness of the modern generation. It was only recently that we started putting ketchup on everything. Primitives mannerism, sickness, hospital, ketchup, flag, mouth, spicy, stand up, vase, ten, needle 癖(くせ): a habit (often a bad habit, i.e. vice), peculiarity Kunyomi: くせ、くせ.に Onyomi: ヘキ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 癖 (くせ)	mannerism 癖 画数18 1826 Details Story Dictionary 癖 mannerism Heisig's Sickness . . . ketchup. Koohii #1 Caveman has a bad mannerism of putting ketchup on everything he eats. I guess that´s ok since raw mammoth can´t be too good... Koohii #2 This mannerism is a sickness of the modern generation. It was only recently that we started putting ketchup on everything. Primitives mannerism, sickness, hospital, ketchup, flag, mouth, spicy, stand up, vase, ten, needle 癖(くせ): a habit (often a bad habit, i.e. vice), peculiarity Kunyomi: くせ、くせ.に Onyomi: ヘキ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 癖 (くせ)
hide Details Story Dictionary 匿 hide Heisig's Box . . . young. Koohii #1 Young kids likes to hide in cardboard boxes. (Primitive: CARDBOARD BOX, especially kids playing with them.). Koohii #2 Note that stroke order with box primitive is as follows: first horizontal line, then enclosed element, and then a hook (it´s incorrect in 4th edition). Primitives hide, box, young, flowers, right, by one’s side, mouth Kunyomi: かくま.う Onyomi: トク Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	hide 匿 画数10 1827 Details Story Dictionary 匿 hide Heisig's Box . . . young. Koohii #1 Young kids likes to hide in cardboard boxes. (Primitive: CARDBOARD BOX, especially kids playing with them.). Koohii #2 Note that stroke order with box primitive is as follows: first horizontal line, then enclosed element, and then a hook (it´s incorrect in 4th edition). Primitives hide, box, young, flowers, right, by one’s side, mouth Kunyomi: かくま.う Onyomi: トク Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
artisan Details Story Dictionary 匠 artisan Heisig's Box . . . ax. Koohii #1 Hint: Artisan/Ax Def: An artisan is a skilled manual worker; a craftsperson. Here we see his tools represented by the artisan's ax stored in his toolbox. Koohii #2 We here have the axe-man who´s an artisan at making sculptures with his axe... The only thing is, he never shows anyone, keeping all his sculptures inside a box down in the basement. He doesn´t want any attention. Primitives artisan, box, axe Kunyomi: たくみ Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	artisan 匠 画数6 1828 Details Story Dictionary 匠 artisan Heisig's Box . . . ax. Koohii #1 Hint: Artisan/Ax Def: An artisan is a skilled manual worker; a craftsperson. Here we see his tools represented by the artisan's ax stored in his toolbox. Koohii #2 We here have the axe-man who´s an artisan at making sculptures with his axe... The only thing is, he never shows anyone, keeping all his sculptures inside a box down in the basement. He doesn´t want any attention. Primitives artisan, box, axe Kunyomi: たくみ Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
doctor Details Story Dictionary 医 doctor Heisig's Box . . . dart. Koohii #1 Easily confused: Dr. (#47), doctor (#1694), examination (#1673), check-up (#1724), medicine (#1736). To avoid confusion I renamed this medic, and picture the medic from Team Fortress 2 returning to his box of darts in the supply cupboard every time his syringe gun is empty. Koohii #2 This DOCTOR prefers to use DARTS instead of syringes for injections. Here, he pulls out his BOX of DARTS, and the child on the examination table squirms. Primitives doctor, box, dart, drop, heavens 医師(いし): doctor 医療(いりょう): medical care, medical treatment 医学(いがく): medical science 歯医者(はいしゃ): dentist 医者(いしゃ): doctor (medical) Kunyomi: い.やす、い.する、くすし Onyomi: イ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:	doctor 医 画数7 1829 Details Story Dictionary 医 doctor Heisig's Box . . . dart. Koohii #1 Easily confused: Dr. (#47), doctor (#1694), examination (#1673), check-up (#1724), medicine (#1736). To avoid confusion I renamed this medic, and picture the medic from Team Fortress 2 returning to his box of darts in the supply cupboard every time his syringe gun is empty. Koohii #2 This DOCTOR prefers to use DARTS instead of syringes for injections. Here, he pulls out his BOX of DARTS, and the child on the examination table squirms. Primitives doctor, box, dart, drop, heavens 医師(いし): doctor 医療(いりょう): medical care, medical treatment 医学(いがく): medical science 歯医者(はいしゃ): dentist 医者(いしゃ): doctor (medical) Kunyomi: い.やす、い.する、くすし Onyomi: イ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:
equal Details Story Dictionary 匹 equal Heisig's Box . . . human legs. Koohii #1 This kanji is used commonly as a counter for small animals. This is a pictograph of a SMALL ANIMAL´S view from inside a CARDBOARD BOX looking out at his masters HUMAN LEGS. He´s probably hiding so the master does not COUNT him with the other animals which will probably be eaten (thus he avoids everyones EQUAL fate on the farm: the kitchen table). Koohii #2 Imagine a magician doing that trick where he puts his assistant in a box and proceeds to saw her in half. Don’t the human legs sticking horizontally out of the box remind you of an equal sign? Primitives equal, box, human legs 匹(ひき): head, small animal counter, roll of cloth 匹敵(ひってき): comparing with, match, rival, equal Kunyomi: ひき Onyomi: ヒツ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 匹 (ひき)	equal 匹 画数4 1830 Details Story Dictionary 匹 equal Heisig's Box . . . human legs. Koohii #1 This kanji is used commonly as a counter for small animals. This is a pictograph of a SMALL ANIMAL´S view from inside a CARDBOARD BOX looking out at his masters HUMAN LEGS. He´s probably hiding so the master does not COUNT him with the other animals which will probably be eaten (thus he avoids everyones EQUAL fate on the farm: the kitchen table). Koohii #2 Imagine a magician doing that trick where he puts his assistant in a box and proceeds to saw her in half. Don’t the human legs sticking horizontally out of the box remind you of an equal sign? Primitives equal, box, human legs 匹(ひき): head, small animal counter, roll of cloth 匹敵(ひってき): comparing with, match, rival, equal Kunyomi: ひき Onyomi: ヒツ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 匹 (ひき)
ward Details Story Dictionary 区 ward Heisig's The ward referred to here is a subdivision of a large city. Its elements: box . . . sheaves. When used as a primitive element, it may be helpful at times to break it up into these same composite elements. Koohii #1 In the homeless ward of the city you see people sleeping in CARDBOARD BOXES using a SHEAF as a pillow. Koohii #2 That´s the homeless ward of the city. Wolverine lives in a cardboard box there. Primitives ward, box, sheaf 区(く): ward, district, section 区画(くかく): division, section, compartment, boundary, area, block 区間(くかん): section (of track etc) 区切り(くぎり): an end, a stop, punctuation 区々(まちまち): several, various, divergent, conflicting, different, diverse, trivial 区域(くいき): limits, boundary, domain, zone, sphere, territory 区切る(くぎる): punctuate, cut off, mark off, stop, put an end to 区分(くぶん): division, section, compartment, demarcation, (traffic) lane, classification, sorting 区別(くべつ): distinction, differentiation, classification 地区(ちく): district, section, sector Kunyomi: Onyomi: ク、オウ、コウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	ward 区 画数4 1831 Details Story Dictionary 区 ward Heisig's The ward referred to here is a subdivision of a large city. Its elements: box . . . sheaves. When used as a primitive element, it may be helpful at times to break it up into these same composite elements. Koohii #1 In the homeless ward of the city you see people sleeping in CARDBOARD BOXES using a SHEAF as a pillow. Koohii #2 That´s the homeless ward of the city. Wolverine lives in a cardboard box there. Primitives ward, box, sheaf 区(く): ward, district, section 区画(くかく): division, section, compartment, boundary, area, block 区間(くかん): section (of track etc) 区切り(くぎり): an end, a stop, punctuation 区々(まちまち): several, various, divergent, conflicting, different, diverse, trivial 区域(くいき): limits, boundary, domain, zone, sphere, territory 区切る(くぎる): punctuate, cut off, mark off, stop, put an end to 区分(くぶん): division, section, compartment, demarcation, (traffic) lane, classification, sorting 区別(くべつ): distinction, differentiation, classification 地区(ちく): district, section, sector Kunyomi: Onyomi: ク、オウ、コウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
hinge Details Story Dictionary 枢 hinge Heisig's Tree . . . ward. Koohii #1 Make sure you install the hinge the right way. If it opens treeward (= tree ward), you won't be able to get the fence open, make sure it opens houseward. Koohii #2 You notice a hinge on a tree and realize there´s a secret door. You open it up to find an Xbox!!! Primitives hinge, tree, wood, ward, box, sheaf 中枢(ちゅうすう): centre, pivot, mainstay, nucleus, backbone, central figure, pillar, key man Kunyomi: とぼそ、からくり Onyomi: スウ、シュ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	hinge 枢 画数8 1832 Details Story Dictionary 枢 hinge Heisig's Tree . . . ward. Koohii #1 Make sure you install the hinge the right way. If it opens treeward (= tree ward), you won't be able to get the fence open, make sure it opens houseward. Koohii #2 You notice a hinge on a tree and realize there´s a secret door. You open it up to find an Xbox!!! Primitives hinge, tree, wood, ward, box, sheaf 中枢(ちゅうすう): centre, pivot, mainstay, nucleus, backbone, central figure, pillar, key man Kunyomi: とぼそ、からくり Onyomi: スウ、シュ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
assault Details Story Dictionary 殴 assault Heisig's Ward . . . missile. Koohii #1 The biggest assault on Japan during WW2 is when the wards in Hiroshima and Nagasaki were wiped out by nuclear missiles. Koohii #2 In this hospital ward, the personnel is assaulted by missiles. Think of a ward where crazy old people assault the personnel because they don´t like the food, they don´t want to take their medicines, they want to go home, etc. The patients use whatever they can get their hands on as missiles. Primitives assault, ward, box, sheaf, missile, cruise missile, wind, crotch 殴る(なぐる): to strike, to hit Kunyomi: なぐ.る Onyomi: オウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 殴る (なぐ.る)	assault 殴 画数8 1833 Details Story Dictionary 殴 assault Heisig's Ward . . . missile. Koohii #1 The biggest assault on Japan during WW2 is when the wards in Hiroshima and Nagasaki were wiped out by nuclear missiles. Koohii #2 In this hospital ward, the personnel is assaulted by missiles. Think of a ward where crazy old people assault the personnel because they don´t like the food, they don´t want to take their medicines, they want to go home, etc. The patients use whatever they can get their hands on as missiles. Primitives assault, ward, box, sheaf, missile, cruise missile, wind, crotch 殴る(なぐる): to strike, to hit Kunyomi: なぐ.る Onyomi: オウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 殴る (なぐ.る)
Europe Details Story Dictionary 欧 Europe My Story [Ward {区} + Lack] In Europe, we LACK wards, we prefer to divide areas into counties and boroughs. Koohii #1 Do japanese consider Europe like just a ward, boring enough to make them yawn?? This kanji is offensive! Koohii #2 [Europe] X-Box was first released in America and Japan (the biggest videogame markets). Europe had an X-Box lack for a while... Primitives europe, ward, box, sheaf, lack, yawn 欧米(おうべい): Europe and America, the West Kunyomi: うた.う、は.く Onyomi: オウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	Europe 欧 画数8 1834 Details Story Dictionary 欧 Europe My Story [Ward {区} + Lack] In Europe, we LACK wards, we prefer to divide areas into counties and boroughs. Koohii #1 Do japanese consider Europe like just a ward, boring enough to make them yawn?? This kanji is offensive! Koohii #2 [Europe] X-Box was first released in America and Japan (the biggest videogame markets). Europe had an X-Box lack for a while... Primitives europe, ward, box, sheaf, lack, yawn 欧米(おうべい): Europe and America, the West Kunyomi: うた.う、は.く Onyomi: オウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
repress Details Story Dictionary 抑 repress Heisig's Fingers . . . box . . . stamps. Koohii #1 They would repress dissents by cutting off their fingers and mailing them to relatives in small boxes (of course including stamps for proper postage). Koohii #2 A true stamp collecting nerd won´t be able to repress the urge to get his fingers on the latest box of collector stamps! Primitives repress, finger, fingers, stamp album, box, stamps 抑圧(よくあつ): check, restraint, oppression, suppression 抑制(よくせい): suppression Kunyomi: おさ.える Onyomi: ヨク Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 抑える (おさ.える)	repress 抑 画数7 1835 Details Story Dictionary 抑 repress Heisig's Fingers . . . box . . . stamps. Koohii #1 They would repress dissents by cutting off their fingers and mailing them to relatives in small boxes (of course including stamps for proper postage). Koohii #2 A true stamp collecting nerd won´t be able to repress the urge to get his fingers on the latest box of collector stamps! Primitives repress, finger, fingers, stamp album, box, stamps 抑圧(よくあつ): check, restraint, oppression, suppression 抑制(よくせい): suppression Kunyomi: おさ.える Onyomi: ヨク Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 抑える (おさ.える)
"faceup Details Story Dictionary 仰 faceup Heisig's This character is used both for lying on one's back faceup, and for looking up to someone with respect and awe. Its elements: person . . . box . . . stamps. Koohii #1 Mr T with the post package at the post office: ´these stamps don´t stick to the box, foo´ Postguy:´ Try it again but this time with the stamp, face-up.´. Koohii #2 Mr. T, his ""acting career"" in its twilight, must now FACE-UP to the fact that his mug will never appear on a BOX of cereal or on a STAMP. Primitives face up, person, stamp album, box, stamps 仰ぐ(あおぐ): to look up (to), to respect, to depend on, to ask for, to seek, to revere, to drink, to take 仰っしゃる(おっしゃる): to say, to speak, to tell, to talk 信仰(しんこう): (religious) faith, belief, creed Kunyomi: あお.ぐ、おお.せ、お.っしゃる、おっしゃ.る Onyomi: ギョウ、コウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 仰視 (ぎょうし), 仰天 (ぎょうてん), 仰角 (ぎょうかく), 仰ぐ (あお.ぐ), 仰せ (おお.せ)"	"faceup 仰 画数6 1836 Details Story Dictionary 仰 faceup Heisig's This character is used both for lying on one's back faceup, and for looking up to someone with respect and awe. Its elements: person . . . box . . . stamps. Koohii #1 Mr T with the post package at the post office: ´these stamps don´t stick to the box, foo´ Postguy:´ Try it again but this time with the stamp, face-up.´. Koohii #2 Mr. T, his ""acting career"" in its twilight, must now FACE-UP to the fact that his mug will never appear on a BOX of cereal or on a STAMP. Primitives face up, person, stamp album, box, stamps 仰ぐ(あおぐ): to look up (to), to respect, to depend on, to ask for, to seek, to revere, to drink, to take 仰っしゃる(おっしゃる): to say, to speak, to tell, to talk 信仰(しんこう): (religious) faith, belief, creed Kunyomi: あお.ぐ、おお.せ、お.っしゃる、おっしゃ.る Onyomi: ギョウ、コウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 仰視 (ぎょうし), 仰天 (ぎょうてん), 仰角 (ぎょうかく), 仰ぐ (あお.ぐ), 仰せ (おお.せ)"
welcome Details Story Dictionary 迎 welcome Heisig's Box . . . stamps . . . road. Koohii #1 Welcome home daddy! Is that box for me? You were on the road a long time! I collected all the stamps from the letters you wrote me　:-) ...　　RTK2:　ゲイ　歓迎　かんげい(welcome). Koohii #2 Stamp-collectors sit and wait on the road to welcome new mail arrivals. Primitives welcome, stamp album, box, stamps, road 歓迎(かんげい): welcome, reception 出迎え(でむかえ): meeting, reception 出迎える(でむかえる): to meet, to greet 迎え(むかえ): meeting, person sent to pick up an arrival 迎える(むかえる): meet, welcome, greet Kunyomi: むか.える Onyomi: ゲイ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 迎える (むか.える)	welcome 迎 画数7 1837 Details Story Dictionary 迎 welcome Heisig's Box . . . stamps . . . road. Koohii #1 Welcome home daddy! Is that box for me? You were on the road a long time! I collected all the stamps from the letters you wrote me　:-) ...　　RTK2:　ゲイ　歓迎　かんげい(welcome). Koohii #2 Stamp-collectors sit and wait on the road to welcome new mail arrivals. Primitives welcome, stamp album, box, stamps, road 歓迎(かんげい): welcome, reception 出迎え(でむかえ): meeting, reception 出迎える(でむかえる): to meet, to greet 迎え(むかえ): meeting, person sent to pick up an arrival 迎える(むかえる): meet, welcome, greet Kunyomi: むか.える Onyomi: ゲイ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 迎える (むか.える)
ascend Details Story Dictionary 登 ascend Heisig's Teepee . . . table. Do not confuse with rise up (Frame 43). Koohii #1 When an American Indian warrior dies, his body is placed on a TABLE inside a TEEPEE, and a ritualistic ceremony is held to encourage his spirit to ASCEND to that big buffalo hunting ground in the sky. Koohii #2 When I was a kid I went out camping in a teepee. I ate beans for dinner, and afterwards I produced so much gas that my teepee actually ascended in the air! Primitives ascend, teepee, wigwam, beans, table, one, mouth 登校(とうこう): attendance (at school) 登録(とうろく): registration, register, entry, record 登場(とうじょう): entry (on stage), appearance (on screen), entrance, introduction (into a market) 登山(とざん): mountain climbing 登る(のぼる): climb Kunyomi: のぼ.る、あ.がる Onyomi: トウ、ト、ドウ、ショウ、チョウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 登壇 (とうだん), 登校 (とうこう), 登記 (とうき), 登る (のぼ.る)	ascend 登 画数12 1838 Details Story Dictionary 登 ascend Heisig's Teepee . . . table. Do not confuse with rise up (Frame 43). Koohii #1 When an American Indian warrior dies, his body is placed on a TABLE inside a TEEPEE, and a ritualistic ceremony is held to encourage his spirit to ASCEND to that big buffalo hunting ground in the sky. Koohii #2 When I was a kid I went out camping in a teepee. I ate beans for dinner, and afterwards I produced so much gas that my teepee actually ascended in the air! Primitives ascend, teepee, wigwam, beans, table, one, mouth 登校(とうこう): attendance (at school) 登録(とうろく): registration, register, entry, record 登場(とうじょう): entry (on stage), appearance (on screen), entrance, introduction (into a market) 登山(とざん): mountain climbing 登る(のぼる): climb Kunyomi: のぼ.る、あ.がる Onyomi: トウ、ト、ドウ、ショウ、チョウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 登壇 (とうだん), 登校 (とうこう), 登記 (とうき), 登る (のぼ.る)
lucidity Details Story Dictionary 澄 lucidity Heisig's Water . . . ascend. Koohii #1 Scuba divers know that when you ascend in the water, your lucidity increases (For non-divers, the deeper you go, the more you become mentally impaired by nitrogen narcosis, every 50 feet is like drinking one martini). Scuba divers also know that as you ascend in the water, the lucidity of the water improves, too. Koohii #2 A few drops of acid/peyote and the Indians obtain lucidity on their vision quest, as if they were floating in the lucid sky. Primitives lucidity, water, water droplets, water pistol, ascend, teepee, wigwam, beans, table, one, mouth 澄ます(すます): to clear, to make clear, to be unruffled, to look unconcerned, to look demure, look prim, put on airs 澄む(すむ): to clear (e.g. weather), to become transparent Kunyomi: す.む、す.ます、-す.ます Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 澄ます (す.ます), 澄む (す.む)	lucidity 澄 画数15 1839 Details Story Dictionary 澄 lucidity Heisig's Water . . . ascend. Koohii #1 Scuba divers know that when you ascend in the water, your lucidity increases (For non-divers, the deeper you go, the more you become mentally impaired by nitrogen narcosis, every 50 feet is like drinking one martini). Scuba divers also know that as you ascend in the water, the lucidity of the water improves, too. Koohii #2 A few drops of acid/peyote and the Indians obtain lucidity on their vision quest, as if they were floating in the lucid sky. Primitives lucidity, water, water droplets, water pistol, ascend, teepee, wigwam, beans, table, one, mouth 澄ます(すます): to clear, to make clear, to be unruffled, to look unconcerned, to look demure, look prim, put on airs 澄む(すむ): to clear (e.g. weather), to become transparent Kunyomi: す.む、す.ます、-す.ます Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 澄ます (す.ます), 澄む (す.む)
discharge Details Story Dictionary 発 discharge Heisig's This key word refers to the discharging of guns, trains, people, and even words. The elements: teepee . . . two . . . human legs. Contrast the writing with frame 63. Koohii #1 Two pairs of human legs poking out of a teepee: you know there´ll be a discharge soon, be it sexual, violent (husband returns home with a weapon), or dishonourable (soldier caught molesting a native), or perhaps all of the above. Koohii #2 I spent some time in her TEEPEE...just the TWO of us...but I looked between her HUMAN LEGS and I saw a nasty DISCHARGE...so I made my 出発　rather hastily. Primitives discharge, teepee, wigwam, two, human legs 開発(かいはつ): development, exploitation 活発(かっぱつ): vigor, active 再発(さいはつ): return, relapse, reoccurrence 始発(しはつ): first train 発(はつ): departure, beginning, counter for gunshots 発育(はついく): (physical) growth, development 発芽(はつが): burgeoning 発掘(はっくつ): excavation, exhumation 発言(はつげん): utterance, speech, proposal 発生(はっせい): outbreak, spring forth, occurrence, incidence, origin 発足(はっそく): starting, inauguration 発病(はつびょう): attack (disease) 発条(ばね): spring (e.g. coil leaf) 反発(はんぱつ): repelling, rebound, recover, oppose 発作(ほっさ): fit, spasm 蒸発(じょうはつ): evaporation, unexplained disappearance 発つ(たつ): depart (on a plane, train, etc.) 爆発(ばくはつ): explosion, detonation, eruption 発揮(はっき): exhibition, demonstration, utilization, display 発見(はっけん): discovery, detection, finding 発行(はっこう): issue (publications) 発車(はっしゃ): departure of a vehicle 発射(はっしゃ): firing, shooting, discharge, catapult 発想(はっそう): expression (music), conceptualization 発達(はったつ): development, growth 発展(はってん): development, growth 発電(はつでん): generation (e.g. power) 発売(はつばい): sale 発表(はっぴょう): announcement, publication 発明(はつめい): invention 出発(しゅっぱつ): depart 発音(はつおん): pronunciation Kunyomi: た.つ、あば.く、おこ.る、つか.わす、はな.つ Onyomi: ハツ、ホツ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 発明 (はつめい), 発射 (はっしゃ), 突発 (とっぱつ)	discharge 発 画数9 1840 Details Story Dictionary 発 discharge Heisig's This key word refers to the discharging of guns, trains, people, and even words. The elements: teepee . . . two . . . human legs. Contrast the writing with frame 63. Koohii #1 Two pairs of human legs poking out of a teepee: you know there´ll be a discharge soon, be it sexual, violent (husband returns home with a weapon), or dishonourable (soldier caught molesting a native), or perhaps all of the above. Koohii #2 I spent some time in her TEEPEE...just the TWO of us...but I looked between her HUMAN LEGS and I saw a nasty DISCHARGE...so I made my 出発　rather hastily. Primitives discharge, teepee, wigwam, two, human legs 開発(かいはつ): development, exploitation 活発(かっぱつ): vigor, active 再発(さいはつ): return, relapse, reoccurrence 始発(しはつ): first train 発(はつ): departure, beginning, counter for gunshots 発育(はついく): (physical) growth, development 発芽(はつが): burgeoning 発掘(はっくつ): excavation, exhumation 発言(はつげん): utterance, speech, proposal 発生(はっせい): outbreak, spring forth, occurrence, incidence, origin 発足(はっそく): starting, inauguration 発病(はつびょう): attack (disease) 発条(ばね): spring (e.g. coil leaf) 反発(はんぱつ): repelling, rebound, recover, oppose 発作(ほっさ): fit, spasm 蒸発(じょうはつ): evaporation, unexplained disappearance 発つ(たつ): depart (on a plane, train, etc.) 爆発(ばくはつ): explosion, detonation, eruption 発揮(はっき): exhibition, demonstration, utilization, display 発見(はっけん): discovery, detection, finding 発行(はっこう): issue (publications) 発車(はっしゃ): departure of a vehicle 発射(はっしゃ): firing, shooting, discharge, catapult 発想(はっそう): expression (music), conceptualization 発達(はったつ): development, growth 発展(はってん): development, growth 発電(はつでん): generation (e.g. power) 発売(はつばい): sale 発表(はっぴょう): announcement, publication 発明(はつめい): invention 出発(しゅっぱつ): depart 発音(はつおん): pronunciation Kunyomi: た.つ、あば.く、おこ.る、つか.わす、はな.つ Onyomi: ハツ、ホツ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 発明 (はつめい), 発射 (はっしゃ), 突発 (とっぱつ)
abolish Details Story Dictionary 廃 abolish Heisig's Cave . . . discharge. Koohii #1 Slaves have been discharged from the caves where they were kept thanks to the abolition of slavery. Koohii #2 Guns were abolished, so gun enthusiats left for the hills to discharge their guns in caves. Primitives abolish, cave, dicharge, teepee, wigwam, two, human legs 荒廃(こうはい): ruin 廃れる(すたれる): to go out of use, to become obsolete, to die out, to go out of fashion 廃棄(はいき): annullment, disposal, abandon, scrap, discarding, repeal 廃止(はいし): abolition, repeal Kunyomi: すた.れる、すた.る Onyomi: ハイ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 廃る (すた.る), 廃れる (すた.れる)	abolish 廃 画数12 1841 Details Story Dictionary 廃 abolish Heisig's Cave . . . discharge. Koohii #1 Slaves have been discharged from the caves where they were kept thanks to the abolition of slavery. Koohii #2 Guns were abolished, so gun enthusiats left for the hills to discharge their guns in caves. Primitives abolish, cave, dicharge, teepee, wigwam, two, human legs 荒廃(こうはい): ruin 廃れる(すたれる): to go out of use, to become obsolete, to die out, to go out of fashion 廃棄(はいき): annullment, disposal, abandon, scrap, discarding, repeal 廃止(はいし): abolition, repeal Kunyomi: すた.れる、すた.る Onyomi: ハイ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 廃る (すた.る), 廃れる (すた.れる)
"colleague Details Story Dictionary 僚 colleague Heisig's Person . . . pup tent. Choose some connotation of the key word that will keep it distinct for you from companion (Frame 19), friend (Frame 760), consort (Frame 1287), and comrade (Frame 1765). Koohii #1 A colleague implies someone that you share work with, such as in your company or profession, etc. Here your colleague helps you to erect your pup tent during a company outing. Note: Heisig's warning to keep this distinct from other similiar kanji such as companion (#19), friend (#704), consort (#1203) and comrade (#1637). That is why I chose to have the person element pictured as someone (the colleague in this case) helping with the work of building the pup tent. Koohii #2 Mr. T began working in a japanese compagny. As he sees that his colleague accept to do some extra work during the week-end and even sleep at the office, he says to them: ""I pity da fool who work during week-end! You might as well install a pup tent in the office and forget about your home"". Primitives colleague, person, pup tent, large, St. Bernard, sun, day, small, little 官僚(かんりょう): bureaucrat, bureaucracy 同僚(どうりょう): coworker, colleague, associate Kunyomi: Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"colleague 僚 画数14 1842 Details Story Dictionary 僚 colleague Heisig's Person . . . pup tent. Choose some connotation of the key word that will keep it distinct for you from companion (Frame 19), friend (Frame 760), consort (Frame 1287), and comrade (Frame 1765). Koohii #1 A colleague implies someone that you share work with, such as in your company or profession, etc. Here your colleague helps you to erect your pup tent during a company outing. Note: Heisig's warning to keep this distinct from other similiar kanji such as companion (#19), friend (#704), consort (#1203) and comrade (#1637). That is why I chose to have the person element pictured as someone (the colleague in this case) helping with the work of building the pup tent. Koohii #2 Mr. T began working in a japanese compagny. As he sees that his colleague accept to do some extra work during the week-end and even sleep at the office, he says to them: ""I pity da fool who work during week-end! You might as well install a pup tent in the office and forget about your home"". Primitives colleague, person, pup tent, large, St. Bernard, sun, day, small, little 官僚(かんりょう): bureaucrat, bureaucracy 同僚(どうりょう): coworker, colleague, associate Kunyomi: Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
obvious Details Story Dictionary 瞭 obvious Heisig's Eye . . . pup tent. Koohii #1 Open your eyes, it's obvious that not all of us can fit into that small puptent! Koohii #2 It´s obvious that the pup tent with a huge eye on the side belongs to the dark lord Sauron. Primitives obvious, eye, pup tent, large, St. Bernard, sun, day, small, little 明瞭(めいりょう): clarity Kunyomi: あきらか Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	obvious 瞭 画数17 1843 Details Story Dictionary 瞭 obvious Heisig's Eye . . . pup tent. Koohii #1 Open your eyes, it's obvious that not all of us can fit into that small puptent! Koohii #2 It´s obvious that the pup tent with a huge eye on the side belongs to the dark lord Sauron. Primitives obvious, eye, pup tent, large, St. Bernard, sun, day, small, little 明瞭(めいりょう): clarity Kunyomi: あきらか Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
dormitory Details Story Dictionary 寮 dormitory Heisig's House . . . pup tent. Koohii #1 A dormitory is right in the middle between living in a house and living in a pup tent. Koohii #2 This guy would rather use his pup-tent as a house, than sleep in the dormitory. So he effectively turned that pup-tent into a house by getting a postal address for it etc. (just to emphasize house). Primitives dormitory, house, pup tent, large, St. Bernard, sun, day, small, little 寮(りょう): hostel, dormitory Kunyomi: Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	dormitory 寮 画数15 1844 Details Story Dictionary 寮 dormitory Heisig's House . . . pup tent. Koohii #1 A dormitory is right in the middle between living in a house and living in a pup tent. Koohii #2 This guy would rather use his pup-tent as a house, than sleep in the dormitory. So he effectively turned that pup-tent into a house by getting a postal address for it etc. (just to emphasize house). Primitives dormitory, house, pup tent, large, St. Bernard, sun, day, small, little 寮(りょう): hostel, dormitory Kunyomi: Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
heal Details Story Dictionary 療 heal Heisig's Sickness . . . pup tent. Koohii #1 On the battlefield, the only place to heal from your sickness is inside the medic's pup tent. Think of M.A.S.H. Koohii #2 Sick caveman has to sleep in his pup tent. Not the cave because to humid and cold but a nice small pup tent in the sun will heal him from his cold. Primitives heal, sickness, hospital, pup tent, large, St. Bernard, sun, day, small, little 診療(しんりょう): medical examination and treatment, diagnosis 治療(ちりょう): medical treatment 医療(いりょう): medical care, medical treatment Kunyomi: Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	heal 療 画数17 1845 Details Story Dictionary 療 heal Heisig's Sickness . . . pup tent. Koohii #1 On the battlefield, the only place to heal from your sickness is inside the medic's pup tent. Think of M.A.S.H. Koohii #2 Sick caveman has to sleep in his pup tent. Not the cave because to humid and cold but a nice small pup tent in the sun will heal him from his cold. Primitives heal, sickness, hospital, pup tent, large, St. Bernard, sun, day, small, little 診療(しんりょう): medical examination and treatment, diagnosis 治療(ちりょう): medical treatment 医療(いりょう): medical care, medical treatment Kunyomi: Onyomi: リョウ Lesson: 44 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
carve Details Story Dictionary 彫 carve Heisig's The two primitives here, circumference and shape, belong naturally to the special connotations that differentiate carving from engraving (see frame 1639). Koohii #1 A lathe is used to carve a shape with circumference into wood or metal. Koohii #2 Start with a circumference and carve away until you get the shape you want. Primitives carve, circumference, running track, glass hood, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, shape 彫刻(ちょうこく): carving, engraving, sculpture 彫る(ほる): carve, engrave, sculpture, chisel Kunyomi: ほ.る、-ぼ.り Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 彫る (ほ.る)	carve 彫 画数11 1846 Details Story Dictionary 彫 carve Heisig's The two primitives here, circumference and shape, belong naturally to the special connotations that differentiate carving from engraving (see frame 1639). Koohii #1 A lathe is used to carve a shape with circumference into wood or metal. Koohii #2 Start with a circumference and carve away until you get the shape you want. Primitives carve, circumference, running track, glass hood, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, shape 彫刻(ちょうこく): carving, engraving, sculpture 彫る(ほる): carve, engrave, sculpture, chisel Kunyomi: ほ.る、-ぼ.り Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 彫る (ほ.る)
"shape Details Story Dictionary 形 shape Heisig's Two hands . . . shape. Koohii #1 Everyone in the kindergarten came up with fun and interesting shapes made out of Play-Doh, except for the kid with the amputated arm. Seems like you really need both hands. Koohii #2 With your two hands, outline the shape of a curvaceous woman. Is that a universally understood gesture? [Careful: mould (#680) which has two hands and soil/clay]. Primitives shape, two hands, shape 形成(けいせい): formation 形勢(けいせい): condition, situation, prospects 形態(けいたい): form, shape, figure 原形(げんけい): original form, base form 地形(じぎょう): terrain, geographical features, topography 形式(けいしき): form, formality, format, mathematics expression 形容詞(けいようし): ""true"" adjective 形容動詞(けいようどうし): adjectival noun, quasi-adjective 図形(ずけい): figure 正方形(せいほうけい): square 長方形(ちょうほうけい): rectangle, oblong 形(かたち): form, shape 人形(にんぎょう): doll Kunyomi: かた、-がた、かたち、なり Onyomi: ケイ、ギョウ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 形態 (けいたい), 形成 (けいせい), 図形 (ずけい), 形 (かた), 形 (かたち)"	"shape 形 画数7 1847 Details Story Dictionary 形 shape Heisig's Two hands . . . shape. Koohii #1 Everyone in the kindergarten came up with fun and interesting shapes made out of Play-Doh, except for the kid with the amputated arm. Seems like you really need both hands. Koohii #2 With your two hands, outline the shape of a curvaceous woman. Is that a universally understood gesture? [Careful: mould (#680) which has two hands and soil/clay]. Primitives shape, two hands, shape 形成(けいせい): formation 形勢(けいせい): condition, situation, prospects 形態(けいたい): form, shape, figure 原形(げんけい): original form, base form 地形(じぎょう): terrain, geographical features, topography 形式(けいしき): form, formality, format, mathematics expression 形容詞(けいようし): ""true"" adjective 形容動詞(けいようどうし): adjectival noun, quasi-adjective 図形(ずけい): figure 正方形(せいほうけい): square 長方形(ちょうほうけい): rectangle, oblong 形(かたち): form, shape 人形(にんぎょう): doll Kunyomi: かた、-がた、かたち、なり Onyomi: ケイ、ギョウ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 形態 (けいたい), 形成 (けいせい), 図形 (ずけい), 形 (かた), 形 (かたち)"
shadow Details Story Dictionary 影 shadow Heisig's Scenery . . . shape. Koohii #1 The sun over the capital cast a shadow with the same shape. Koohii #2 You're out hiking looking at the SCENERY, suddenly out of the corner of your vision you see a large SHADOW's indistinct SHAPE... could it be a grizzly? (cmp shade (#1592)). Primitives shadow, scenery, sun, day, capital, tall, top hat, mouth, small, little, shape 影響(えいきょう): influence, effect 影(かげ): shade, shadow, other side 撮影(さつえい): photographing Kunyomi: かげ Onyomi: エイ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 影 (かげ)	shadow 影 画数15 1848 Details Story Dictionary 影 shadow Heisig's Scenery . . . shape. Koohii #1 The sun over the capital cast a shadow with the same shape. Koohii #2 You're out hiking looking at the SCENERY, suddenly out of the corner of your vision you see a large SHADOW's indistinct SHAPE... could it be a grizzly? (cmp shade (#1592)). Primitives shadow, scenery, sun, day, capital, tall, top hat, mouth, small, little, shape 影響(えいきょう): influence, effect 影(かげ): shade, shadow, other side 撮影(さつえい): photographing Kunyomi: かげ Onyomi: エイ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 影 (かげ)
cedar Details Story Dictionary 杉 cedar Heisig's Tree . . . shape. Koohii #1 Cedar is an evergreen tree that keeps its SHAPE all year long. That is, it doesn´t loose its needles/leaves in the winter. Koohii #2 Cedar is a wood that keeps its shape. (This is true, it's rot resistant.). Primitives cedar, tree, wood, shape 杉(すぎ): Japanese cedar Kunyomi: すぎ Onyomi: サン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 杉 (すぎ)	cedar 杉 画数7 1849 Details Story Dictionary 杉 cedar Heisig's Tree . . . shape. Koohii #1 Cedar is an evergreen tree that keeps its SHAPE all year long. That is, it doesn´t loose its needles/leaves in the winter. Koohii #2 Cedar is a wood that keeps its shape. (This is true, it's rot resistant.). Primitives cedar, tree, wood, shape 杉(すぎ): Japanese cedar Kunyomi: すぎ Onyomi: サン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 杉 (すぎ)
coloring Details Story Dictionary 彩 coloring Heisig's Vulture . . . tree . . . shape. Koohii #1 In Sydney we occasionally get exotic birds. You first notice a colouring in a tree. You look more carefully and you make out the shape of a bird (here represented by its claws). Koohii #2 When coloring something in you grab the crayon of choice to fill in the shapes. Primitives coloring, claw, vulture, grab, tree, wood, shape 色彩(しきさい): colour, hue, tints Kunyomi: いろど.る Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 彩る (いろど.る)	coloring 彩 画数11 1850 Details Story Dictionary 彩 coloring Heisig's Vulture . . . tree . . . shape. Koohii #1 In Sydney we occasionally get exotic birds. You first notice a colouring in a tree. You look more carefully and you make out the shape of a bird (here represented by its claws). Koohii #2 When coloring something in you grab the crayon of choice to fill in the shapes. Primitives coloring, claw, vulture, grab, tree, wood, shape 色彩(しきさい): colour, hue, tints Kunyomi: いろど.る Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 彩る (いろど.る)
"patent Details Story Dictionary 彰 patent Heisig's Badge . . . shape. The key word is synonymous with ""clear"" or ""openly expressed."" Koohii #1 The shape of a sheriff´s badge makes it patent who he is. Koohii #2 It was patently absurd when the fellow tried to arrest me--his badge was the wrong shape: a vase and a sunflower? Come now. Primitives patent, badge, vase, stand up, sunflower, early, sun, day, ten, needle, shape Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"patent 彰 画数14 1851 Details Story Dictionary 彰 patent Heisig's Badge . . . shape. The key word is synonymous with ""clear"" or ""openly expressed."" Koohii #1 The shape of a sheriff´s badge makes it patent who he is. Koohii #2 It was patently absurd when the fellow tried to arrest me--his badge was the wrong shape: a vase and a sunflower? Come now. Primitives patent, badge, vase, stand up, sunflower, early, sun, day, ten, needle, shape Kunyomi: Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
lad Details Story Dictionary 彦 lad Heisig's Vase . . . cliff . . . shape. Koohii #1 A lad standing on the top of a cliff, looking into the far, and thinking how to shape his future. Koohii #2 A young lad is standing atop a cliff, looking at the writhing shape of his fallen lass below. Primitives lad, vase, stand up, cliff, shape Kunyomi: ひこ Onyomi: ゲン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	lad 彦 画数9 1852 Details Story Dictionary 彦 lad Heisig's Vase . . . cliff . . . shape. Koohii #1 A lad standing on the top of a cliff, looking into the far, and thinking how to shape his future. Koohii #2 A young lad is standing atop a cliff, looking at the writhing shape of his fallen lass below. Primitives lad, vase, stand up, cliff, shape Kunyomi: ひこ Onyomi: ゲン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
face Details Story Dictionary 顔 face Heisig's Lad . . . head. Koohii #1 A lad's head still has a baby's face. Koohii #2 When I was a lad, a pretty face was all it took for someone to get in my head, and I´d fill pages of lovelorn letters to them. Primitives face, lad, vase, stand up, cliff, shape, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 顔付き(かおつき): (outward) looks, features, face, countenance, expression 笑顔(えがお): smiling face Kunyomi: かお Onyomi: ガン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 顔 (かお)	face 顔 画数18 1853 Details Story Dictionary 顔 face Heisig's Lad . . . head. Koohii #1 A lad's head still has a baby's face. Koohii #2 When I was a lad, a pretty face was all it took for someone to get in my head, and I´d fill pages of lovelorn letters to them. Primitives face, lad, vase, stand up, cliff, shape, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 顔付き(かおつき): (outward) looks, features, face, countenance, expression 笑顔(えがお): smiling face Kunyomi: かお Onyomi: ガン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 顔 (かお)
ought Details Story Dictionary 須 ought Heisig's Shape . . . head. This is the only time that shape is placed to the left of its relative element, the head. Koohii #1 Why, I OUGHT to RESHAPE your HEAD... Koohii #2 Since this Kanji is exceptional, the shape ought to be on the left side. Got that into your head? Primitives ought, shape, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: すべから.く、すべし、ひげ、まつ、もち.いる、もと.める Onyomi: ス、シュ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	ought 須 画数12 1854 Details Story Dictionary 須 ought Heisig's Shape . . . head. This is the only time that shape is placed to the left of its relative element, the head. Koohii #1 Why, I OUGHT to RESHAPE your HEAD... Koohii #2 Since this Kanji is exceptional, the shape ought to be on the left side. Got that into your head? Primitives ought, shape, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: すべから.く、すべし、ひげ、まつ、もち.いる、もと.める Onyomi: ス、シュ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"swell Details Story Dictionary 膨 swell Heisig's Part of the body . . . drum . . . shape. Compare expand (Frame 1199). Koohii #1 This kanji does not mean swell as in a inflammation. There is a different kanji for that meaning (腫れる). This kanji means swell as in, a tire swelling/expanding, your income swelling/expanding, dough swelling/expanding, etc. Johnskb's story is best b/c it does not involve swelling in the sense of inflammation, just general expansion of the stomach. STORY: ""If a PART OF your BODY begins to SWELL/EXPAND and resembles the SHAPE of a bass DRUM, you’re either pregnant or in desperate need of a diet."". Koohii #2 Which part of your body can change shape and, when it does, swells up and throbs like a drumb? Hmmm... Primitives swell, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, drum, samurai, beans, table, one, mouth, shape 膨れる(ふくれる): to get cross, to get sulky, to swell (out), to expand, to be inflated, to distend, to bulge 膨脹(ぼうちょう): expansion, swelling, increase, growth 膨らます(ふくらます): swell, expand, inflate, bulge 膨らむ(ふくらむ): expand, get big, become inflated 膨大(ぼうだい): huge, bulky, enormous, extensive, swelling, expansion Kunyomi: ふく.らむ、ふく.れる Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 膨らむ (ふく.らむ), 膨れる (ふく.れる)"	"swell 膨 画数16 1855 Details Story Dictionary 膨 swell Heisig's Part of the body . . . drum . . . shape. Compare expand (Frame 1199). Koohii #1 This kanji does not mean swell as in a inflammation. There is a different kanji for that meaning (腫れる). This kanji means swell as in, a tire swelling/expanding, your income swelling/expanding, dough swelling/expanding, etc. Johnskb's story is best b/c it does not involve swelling in the sense of inflammation, just general expansion of the stomach. STORY: ""If a PART OF your BODY begins to SWELL/EXPAND and resembles the SHAPE of a bass DRUM, you’re either pregnant or in desperate need of a diet."". Koohii #2 Which part of your body can change shape and, when it does, swells up and throbs like a drumb? Hmmm... Primitives swell, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, drum, samurai, beans, table, one, mouth, shape 膨れる(ふくれる): to get cross, to get sulky, to swell (out), to expand, to be inflated, to distend, to bulge 膨脹(ぼうちょう): expansion, swelling, increase, growth 膨らます(ふくらます): swell, expand, inflate, bulge 膨らむ(ふくらむ): expand, get big, become inflated 膨大(ぼうだい): huge, bulky, enormous, extensive, swelling, expansion Kunyomi: ふく.らむ、ふく.れる Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 膨らむ (ふく.らむ), 膨れる (ふく.れる)"
visit Details Story Dictionary 参 visit My Story [ム + Big + ミ] Koohii #1 I´m going to visit my grandpa in the hospital. He broke his elbow, and it became really big and contorted into a weird shape. I hope he will be all right! Koohii #2 Whenever the postman has to pay a visit to this place, he brings an elbow-shaped thingy that he throws to the St. Bernard. Primitives nonplussed, visit, elbow, large, St. Bernard, shape 参議院(さんぎいん): House of Councillors 参照(さんしょう): reference, consultation, consultation 参上(さんじょう): calling on, visiting お参り(おまいり): worship, shrine visit 参加(さんか): participation 参考(さんこう): reference, consultation 持参(じさん): bringing, taking, carrying 参る(まいる): come (polite ) Kunyomi: まい.る、まい-、まじわる、みつ Onyomi: サン、シン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 参る (まい.る)	visit 参 画数8 1856 Details Story Dictionary 参 visit My Story [ム + Big + ミ] Koohii #1 I´m going to visit my grandpa in the hospital. He broke his elbow, and it became really big and contorted into a weird shape. I hope he will be all right! Koohii #2 Whenever the postman has to pay a visit to this place, he brings an elbow-shaped thingy that he throws to the St. Bernard. Primitives nonplussed, visit, elbow, large, St. Bernard, shape 参議院(さんぎいん): House of Councillors 参照(さんしょう): reference, consultation, consultation 参上(さんじょう): calling on, visiting お参り(おまいり): worship, shrine visit 参加(さんか): participation 参考(さんこう): reference, consultation 持参(じさん): bringing, taking, carrying 参る(まいる): come (polite ) Kunyomi: まい.る、まい-、まじわる、みつ Onyomi: サン、シン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 参る (まい.る)
wretched Details Story Dictionary 惨 wretched Heisig's A state of mind . . . visit. Koohii #1 Whenever I have to visit the relatives... that puts me in one hell of a wretched state of mind. Koohii #2 Data feels wretched because he has no family to visit. Primitives wretched, Freud, state of mind, nonplussed, visit, elbow, large, St. Bernard, shape 悲惨(ひさん): misery 惨め(みじめ): miserable Kunyomi: みじ.め、いた.む、むご.い Onyomi: サン、ザン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 惨劇 (さんげき), 悲惨 (ひさん), 陰惨 (いんさん), 惨め (みじ.め)	wretched 惨 画数11 1857 Details Story Dictionary 惨 wretched Heisig's A state of mind . . . visit. Koohii #1 Whenever I have to visit the relatives... that puts me in one hell of a wretched state of mind. Koohii #2 Data feels wretched because he has no family to visit. Primitives wretched, Freud, state of mind, nonplussed, visit, elbow, large, St. Bernard, shape 悲惨(ひさん): misery 惨め(みじめ): miserable Kunyomi: みじ.め、いた.む、むご.い Onyomi: サン、ザン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 惨劇 (さんげき), 悲惨 (ひさん), 陰惨 (いんさん), 惨め (みじ.め)
discipline Details Story Dictionary 修 discipline Heisig's Person . . . walking stick . . . taskmaster . . . shape. Koohii #1 Mr. T is a harsh taskmaster who will discipline you (beat you into shape) with his walking stick. Koohii #2 You may not have known it, but Mr. T is into discispline. Not just self discipline, in order to get into shape, but what he really likes is when the Task master spanks him with her walking stick. Don´t tell Mr. T I told you. I pity da fool, and da fool would be me!!! Primitives discipline, person, stick, fred astaire, taskmaster, shape 改修(かいしゅう): repair, improvement 修学(しゅうがく): learning 修行(しゅうぎょう): pursuit of knowledge, studying, learning, training, ascetic practice, discipline 修士(しゅうし): Masters degree program 修飾(しゅうしょく): ornamentation, embellishment, decoration, adornment, polish up (writing), modification (gram) 修了(しゅうりょう): completion (of a course) 専修(せんしゅう): specialization 必修(ひっしゅう): required (subject) 研修(けんしゅう): training 修正(しゅうせい): amendment, correction, revision 修繕(しゅうぜん): repair, mending 修理(しゅうり): repairing, mending Kunyomi: おさ.める、おさ.まる Onyomi: シュウ、シュ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 修飾 (しゅうしょく), 修養 (しゅうよう), 改修 (かいしゅう), 修まる (おさ.まる), 修める (おさ.める)	discipline 修 画数10 1858 Details Story Dictionary 修 discipline Heisig's Person . . . walking stick . . . taskmaster . . . shape. Koohii #1 Mr. T is a harsh taskmaster who will discipline you (beat you into shape) with his walking stick. Koohii #2 You may not have known it, but Mr. T is into discispline. Not just self discipline, in order to get into shape, but what he really likes is when the Task master spanks him with her walking stick. Don´t tell Mr. T I told you. I pity da fool, and da fool would be me!!! Primitives discipline, person, stick, fred astaire, taskmaster, shape 改修(かいしゅう): repair, improvement 修学(しゅうがく): learning 修行(しゅうぎょう): pursuit of knowledge, studying, learning, training, ascetic practice, discipline 修士(しゅうし): Masters degree program 修飾(しゅうしょく): ornamentation, embellishment, decoration, adornment, polish up (writing), modification (gram) 修了(しゅうりょう): completion (of a course) 専修(せんしゅう): specialization 必修(ひっしゅう): required (subject) 研修(けんしゅう): training 修正(しゅうせい): amendment, correction, revision 修繕(しゅうぜん): repair, mending 修理(しゅうり): repairing, mending Kunyomi: おさ.める、おさ.まる Onyomi: シュウ、シュ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 修飾 (しゅうしょく), 修養 (しゅうよう), 改修 (かいしゅう), 修まる (おさ.まる), 修める (おさ.める)
"rare Details Story Dictionary 珍 rare Heisig's Jewel . . . umbrella . . . shape. Koohii #1 It's rare to see the king carrying his own parasol - typically he gets one of his attendants to do it for him (thanks to Katsuo for umbrella + shape = parasol and to Peppi for the story idea). Koohii #2 Tip: umbrella + shape : This combination of primitives appears four times in Heisig, so it may be worthwhile giving it a name. I suggest ""parasol"" (because it is the same shape as an umbrella). REF: rare (FRAME 1723) , check-up (#1724), measles (#2574), fallible (#2720). Primitives rare, king, jewel, ball, parasol, umbrella, shape 珍しい(めずらしい): unusual, strange Kunyomi: めずら.しい、たから Onyomi: チン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 珍しい (めずら.しい)"	"rare 珍 画数9 1859 Details Story Dictionary 珍 rare Heisig's Jewel . . . umbrella . . . shape. Koohii #1 It's rare to see the king carrying his own parasol - typically he gets one of his attendants to do it for him (thanks to Katsuo for umbrella + shape = parasol and to Peppi for the story idea). Koohii #2 Tip: umbrella + shape : This combination of primitives appears four times in Heisig, so it may be worthwhile giving it a name. I suggest ""parasol"" (because it is the same shape as an umbrella). REF: rare (FRAME 1723) , check-up (#1724), measles (#2574), fallible (#2720). Primitives rare, king, jewel, ball, parasol, umbrella, shape 珍しい(めずらしい): unusual, strange Kunyomi: めずら.しい、たから Onyomi: チン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 珍しい (めずら.しい)"
"checkup Details Story Dictionary 診 checkup Heisig's Words . . . umbrella . . . shape. The key word refers to a medical examination. Koohii #1 At my last check-up, the doctor said to me: ""Start carrying a parasol, or you might get skin cancer. You've been tanning too much!"" [Umbrella over shape = parasol]. Koohii #2 The doctor at my checkup was expressing words of concern about my umbrella shaped gut. Primitives check up, say, words, keitai, mouth, parasol, umbrella, shape 診療(しんりょう): medical examination and treatment, diagnosis 聴診器(ちょうしんき): stethoscope 診察(しんさつ): medical examination 診断(しんだん): diagnosis 診る(みる): (medicine) examine Kunyomi: み.る Onyomi: シン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 診る (み.る)"	"checkup 診 画数12 1860 Details Story Dictionary 診 checkup Heisig's Words . . . umbrella . . . shape. The key word refers to a medical examination. Koohii #1 At my last check-up, the doctor said to me: ""Start carrying a parasol, or you might get skin cancer. You've been tanning too much!"" [Umbrella over shape = parasol]. Koohii #2 The doctor at my checkup was expressing words of concern about my umbrella shaped gut. Primitives check up, say, words, keitai, mouth, parasol, umbrella, shape 診療(しんりょう): medical examination and treatment, diagnosis 聴診器(ちょうしんき): stethoscope 診察(しんさつ): medical examination 診断(しんだん): diagnosis 診る(みる): (medicine) examine Kunyomi: み.る Onyomi: シン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 診る (み.る)"
sentence Details Story Dictionary 文 sentence Heisig's Under the familiar top hat we see a crisscross pattern or design, like that found on woodwork or garments. This should make an ugly enough image to help remember it. It can be associated with sentence by thinking of a sentence as a grammatical pattern. * The primitive meaning for this character will be plaid, the familiar crisscross pattern frequently used in textiles. Koohii #1 A twist on greenapple: The teacher puts a tophat on all pupils with gramatically correct sentences, while the rest are left with a big red X on their homework. Koohii #2 The teacher in the tophat puts an X on all the grammatically incorrect sentences. Primitives sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly 原文(げんぶん): the text, original 注文(ちゅうもん): order, request 文(ふみ): letter, writings 文化財(ぶんかざい): cultural assets, cultural property 文語(ぶんご): written language, literary language 文書(ぶんしょ): document, writing, letter, note, records, archives 本文(ほんぶん): text (of document), body (of letter) 文字(もじ): letter (of alphabet), character 和文(わぶん): Japanese text, sentence in Japanese 英文(えいぶん): sentence in English 人文科学(じんぶんかがく): social sciences, humanities 文(ぶん): sentence 文芸(ぶんげい): literature, art and literature 文献(ぶんけん): literature, books (reference) 文章(ぶんしょう): sentence, article 文体(ぶんたい): literary style 文房具(ぶんぼうぐ): stationery 文脈(ぶんみゃく): context 文明(ぶんめい): civilization, culture 文句(もんく): phrase, complaint 論文(ろんぶん): thesis, essay, treatise, paper 文化(ぶんか): culture 文学(ぶんがく): literature 文法(ぶんぽう): grammar 作文(さくぶん): composition, writing Kunyomi: ふみ、あや Onyomi: ブン、モン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 文学 (ぶんがく), 文化 (ぶんか), 作文 (さくぶん), 文 (ふみ)	sentence 文 画数4 1861 Details Story Dictionary 文 sentence Heisig's Under the familiar top hat we see a crisscross pattern or design, like that found on woodwork or garments. This should make an ugly enough image to help remember it. It can be associated with sentence by thinking of a sentence as a grammatical pattern. * The primitive meaning for this character will be plaid, the familiar crisscross pattern frequently used in textiles. Koohii #1 A twist on greenapple: The teacher puts a tophat on all pupils with gramatically correct sentences, while the rest are left with a big red X on their homework. Koohii #2 The teacher in the tophat puts an X on all the grammatically incorrect sentences. Primitives sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly 原文(げんぶん): the text, original 注文(ちゅうもん): order, request 文(ふみ): letter, writings 文化財(ぶんかざい): cultural assets, cultural property 文語(ぶんご): written language, literary language 文書(ぶんしょ): document, writing, letter, note, records, archives 本文(ほんぶん): text (of document), body (of letter) 文字(もじ): letter (of alphabet), character 和文(わぶん): Japanese text, sentence in Japanese 英文(えいぶん): sentence in English 人文科学(じんぶんかがく): social sciences, humanities 文(ぶん): sentence 文芸(ぶんげい): literature, art and literature 文献(ぶんけん): literature, books (reference) 文章(ぶんしょう): sentence, article 文体(ぶんたい): literary style 文房具(ぶんぼうぐ): stationery 文脈(ぶんみゃく): context 文明(ぶんめい): civilization, culture 文句(もんく): phrase, complaint 論文(ろんぶん): thesis, essay, treatise, paper 文化(ぶんか): culture 文学(ぶんがく): literature 文法(ぶんぽう): grammar 作文(さくぶん): composition, writing Kunyomi: ふみ、あや Onyomi: ブン、モン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 文学 (ぶんがく), 文化 (ぶんか), 作文 (さくぶん), 文 (ふみ)
mosquito Details Story Dictionary 蚊 mosquito Heisig's Insect . . . plaid. Koohii #1 The mosquito (an insect) knows only one sentence: Bzzzzz. Koohii #2 Mosquitoes are the insect who love Scots in plaid kilts because it makes for easy access to the best parts. Primitives mosquito, insect, sentence, sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly 蚊(か): mosquito Kunyomi: か Onyomi: ブン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	mosquito 蚊 画数10 1864 Details Story Dictionary 蚊 mosquito Heisig's Insect . . . plaid. Koohii #1 The mosquito (an insect) knows only one sentence: Bzzzzz. Koohii #2 Mosquitoes are the insect who love Scots in plaid kilts because it makes for easy access to the best parts. Primitives mosquito, insect, sentence, sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly 蚊(か): mosquito Kunyomi: か Onyomi: ブン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
speckled Details Story Dictionary 斑 speckled Heisig's Ball . . . plaid . . . ball. Koohii #1 Speckled is a pattern, like plaid, but with lots of little balls all over the place. Koohii #2 The sentences exchanged between the two kings got more and more heated, finally leading to a fight which left the whole area speckled with blood. Primitives speckled, king, jewel, ball, sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly, king2, jewel2, ball2 斑(ぶち): spots, speckles, mottles Kunyomi: ふ、まだら Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	speckled 斑 画数12 1865 Details Story Dictionary 斑 speckled Heisig's Ball . . . plaid . . . ball. Koohii #1 Speckled is a pattern, like plaid, but with lots of little balls all over the place. Koohii #2 The sentences exchanged between the two kings got more and more heated, finally leading to a fight which left the whole area speckled with blood. Primitives speckled, king, jewel, ball, sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly, king2, jewel2, ball2 斑(ぶち): spots, speckles, mottles Kunyomi: ふ、まだら Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
"adjusted Details Story Dictionary 斉 adjusted My Story His *SENTENCES* ADJUSTED the *LADDER* Koohii #1 The Scotsman goalkeeper adjusted himself. He reached down and adjusted the two things between his skinny fencepost legs. Koohii #2 HINT: this kanji as a primitive can mean goalkeeper. The ""fence posts"" are goalposts, and the two goalkeepers wear plaid uniforms (this kanji also means uniform as in even), making them uniform with each other and distinguishing them as goalkeepers from the rest of the team. Primitives adjusted, sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly, two, fenceposts, cabers 一斉(いっせい): simultaneous Kunyomi: そろ.う、ひと.しい、ひと.しく、あたる、はやい Onyomi: セイ、サイ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"adjusted 斉 画数8 1866 Details Story Dictionary 斉 adjusted My Story His *SENTENCES* ADJUSTED the *LADDER* Koohii #1 The Scotsman goalkeeper adjusted himself. He reached down and adjusted the two things between his skinny fencepost legs. Koohii #2 HINT: this kanji as a primitive can mean goalkeeper. The ""fence posts"" are goalposts, and the two goalkeepers wear plaid uniforms (this kanji also means uniform as in even), making them uniform with each other and distinguishing them as goalkeepers from the rest of the team. Primitives adjusted, sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly, two, fenceposts, cabers 一斉(いっせい): simultaneous Kunyomi: そろ.う、ひと.しい、ひと.しく、あたる、はやい Onyomi: セイ、サイ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
dose Details Story Dictionary 剤 dose Heisig's Adjust . . . saber. Think of this as a dose of medicine. Koohii #1 When my medicine dose is way too large, I adjust it by cutting it into smaller pieces with my saber. Koohii #2 We had to adjust his dose slightly, after he went on a rampage with a sabre. Primitives dose, adjust, adjusted, sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly, two, fenceposts, cabers, sword, sabre, saber 洗剤(せんざい): detergent, washing material Kunyomi: かる、けず.る Onyomi: ザイ、スイ、セイ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	dose 剤 画数10 1867 Details Story Dictionary 剤 dose Heisig's Adjust . . . saber. Think of this as a dose of medicine. Koohii #1 When my medicine dose is way too large, I adjust it by cutting it into smaller pieces with my saber. Koohii #2 We had to adjust his dose slightly, after he went on a rampage with a sabre. Primitives dose, adjust, adjusted, sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly, two, fenceposts, cabers, sword, sabre, saber 洗剤(せんざい): detergent, washing material Kunyomi: かる、けず.る Onyomi: ザイ、スイ、セイ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
finish Details Story Dictionary 済 finish My Story (NSFW) Women's best friend for an easy finish: a well #adjusted# #water# in the tub. IYKWIM. Koohii #1 When the goalkeeper finishes the game, he drinks a lot of water and adjusts himself. Koohii #2 Finish him! Subzero adjusts the water in your body and crushes you into a few million pieces. Primitives finish, water, water droplets, water pistol, adjust, adjusted, sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly, two, fenceposts, cabers 救済(きゅうさい): relief, aid, rescue, salvation, help 済ます(すます): to finish, to get it over with, to settle, to conclude, to pay back 済まない(すまない): sorry (phrase) 返済(へんさい): repayment 済ませる(すませる): be finished 経済(けいざい): economy 済む(すむ): end Kunyomi: す.む、-ず.み、-ずみ、す.まない、す.ます、-す.ます、すく.う、な.す、わたし、わた.る Onyomi: サイ、セイ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 済ます (す.ます), 済む (す.む)	finish 済 画数11 1868 Details Story Dictionary 済 finish My Story (NSFW) Women's best friend for an easy finish: a well #adjusted# #water# in the tub. IYKWIM. Koohii #1 When the goalkeeper finishes the game, he drinks a lot of water and adjusts himself. Koohii #2 Finish him! Subzero adjusts the water in your body and crushes you into a few million pieces. Primitives finish, water, water droplets, water pistol, adjust, adjusted, sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly, two, fenceposts, cabers 救済(きゅうさい): relief, aid, rescue, salvation, help 済ます(すます): to finish, to get it over with, to settle, to conclude, to pay back 済まない(すまない): sorry (phrase) 返済(へんさい): repayment 済ませる(すませる): be finished 経済(けいざい): economy 済む(すむ): end Kunyomi: す.む、-ず.み、-ずみ、す.まない、す.ます、-す.ます、すく.う、な.す、わたし、わた.る Onyomi: サイ、セイ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 済ます (す.ます), 済む (す.む)
"purification Details Story Dictionary 斎 purification Heisig's Plaid . . . fenceposts . . . altar. This is a ""religious"" purification, which distinguishes it from the simple kanji for pure (Frame 1659). Koohii #1 Purification? I think of Japanese during new year's eve praying(saying sentences) in front of Itsukushima's shrine torii(fenceposts) and its altar. They expect to enter the new year totally purified. Koohii #2 Kind of vulgar, but here the SCOTSMAN got tired of adjusting himself so decided try PURIFICATION. Sadly, he did it by straddling the ALTAR with his skinny LEGS. Primitives purification, sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly, fenceposts, cabers, altar, show, two, small 書斎(しょさい): study Kunyomi: とき、つつし.む、ものいみ、い.む、いわ.う、いつ.く Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"purification 斎 画数11 1869 Details Story Dictionary 斎 purification Heisig's Plaid . . . fenceposts . . . altar. This is a ""religious"" purification, which distinguishes it from the simple kanji for pure (Frame 1659). Koohii #1 Purification? I think of Japanese during new year's eve praying(saying sentences) in front of Itsukushima's shrine torii(fenceposts) and its altar. They expect to enter the new year totally purified. Koohii #2 Kind of vulgar, but here the SCOTSMAN got tired of adjusting himself so decided try PURIFICATION. Sadly, he did it by straddling the ALTAR with his skinny LEGS. Primitives purification, sentence, plaid, kilt, Billy Connolly, fenceposts, cabers, altar, show, two, small 書斎(しょさい): study Kunyomi: とき、つつし.む、ものいみ、い.む、いわ.う、いつ.く Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
solemn Details Story Dictionary 粛 solemn Heisig's Rake . . . rice . . . fenceposts. Take special care to draw this character in the same order as the primitive. Note too, that the fourth stroke for rice is already taken care of by the fourth stroke of rake. Koohii #1 Even though it´s a maddening task, the monks stay solemn as they rake rice between the fenceposts. Koohii #2 Note: This is not sieve as it has a full rice and not rice grains and the hook is missing from rake. Also the given stroke order is incorrect (fenceposts should come last). Primitives solemn, rake, fenceposts, cabers, rice Kunyomi: つつし.む Onyomi: シュク、スク Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	solemn 粛 画数11 1870 Details Story Dictionary 粛 solemn Heisig's Rake . . . rice . . . fenceposts. Take special care to draw this character in the same order as the primitive. Note too, that the fourth stroke for rice is already taken care of by the fourth stroke of rake. Koohii #1 Even though it´s a maddening task, the monks stay solemn as they rake rice between the fenceposts. Koohii #2 Note: This is not sieve as it has a full rice and not rice grains and the hook is missing from rake. Also the given stroke order is incorrect (fenceposts should come last). Primitives solemn, rake, fenceposts, cabers, rice Kunyomi: つつし.む Onyomi: シュク、スク Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
bases Details Story Dictionary 塁 bases Heisig's The kanji of this frame refers to the four bases that are placed at the corners of a baseball infield. The elements: field . . . sparkler . . . ground. Koohii #1 Playing baseball in a rice field with sparklers stuck into the ground to act as bases. Koohii #2 The traditional New Year´s baseball game in Japan is held at midnight in a rice field. They stick sparklers in the ground for the bases so they can be seen, and to be more festive. Primitives bases, rice field, brains, sparkler, soil, dirt, ground Kunyomi: とりで Onyomi: ルイ、ライ、スイ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	bases 塁 画数12 1871 Details Story Dictionary 塁 bases Heisig's The kanji of this frame refers to the four bases that are placed at the corners of a baseball infield. The elements: field . . . sparkler . . . ground. Koohii #1 Playing baseball in a rice field with sparklers stuck into the ground to act as bases. Koohii #2 The traditional New Year´s baseball game in Japan is held at midnight in a rice field. They stick sparklers in the ground for the bases so they can be seen, and to be more festive. Primitives bases, rice field, brains, sparkler, soil, dirt, ground Kunyomi: とりで Onyomi: ルイ、ライ、スイ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
music Details Story Dictionary 楽 music Heisig's Dove . . . sparkler . . . tree. Koohii #1 Zelda: Ocarina of Time - The white sparkly thing is Navi. She´s hovering/dancing around a tree to the legendary Lost Woods music. Koohii #2 There we were at the concert...her voice was like a dove...her dress sparkled...then suddenly, a tree fell on her..... Primitives music, white, dove, sparkler, tree, wood 楽譜(がくふ): score (music) 気楽(きらく): at ease, comfortable 極楽(ごくらく): paradise 楽しむ(たのしむ): to enjoy oneself 楽観(らっかん): optimism 楽器(がっき): musical instrument 娯楽(ごらく): pleasure, amusement 楽む(たのしむ): enjoyment, pleasure 楽(らく): comfort, ease 楽しみ(たのしみ): pleasure, joy 音楽(おんがく): music, musical movement 楽しい(たのしい): pleasant, enjoyable, fun Kunyomi: たの.しい、たの.しむ、この.む Onyomi: ガク、ラク、ゴウ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 楽隊 (がくたい), 楽器 (がっき), 音楽 (おんがく), 楽しい (たの.しい), 楽しむ (たの.しむ)	music 楽 画数13 1872 Details Story Dictionary 楽 music Heisig's Dove . . . sparkler . . . tree. Koohii #1 Zelda: Ocarina of Time - The white sparkly thing is Navi. She´s hovering/dancing around a tree to the legendary Lost Woods music. Koohii #2 There we were at the concert...her voice was like a dove...her dress sparkled...then suddenly, a tree fell on her..... Primitives music, white, dove, sparkler, tree, wood 楽譜(がくふ): score (music) 気楽(きらく): at ease, comfortable 極楽(ごくらく): paradise 楽しむ(たのしむ): to enjoy oneself 楽観(らっかん): optimism 楽器(がっき): musical instrument 娯楽(ごらく): pleasure, amusement 楽む(たのしむ): enjoyment, pleasure 楽(らく): comfort, ease 楽しみ(たのしみ): pleasure, joy 音楽(おんがく): music, musical movement 楽しい(たのしい): pleasant, enjoyable, fun Kunyomi: たの.しい、たの.しむ、この.む Onyomi: ガク、ラク、ゴウ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 楽隊 (がくたい), 楽器 (がっき), 音楽 (おんがく), 楽しい (たの.しい), 楽しむ (たの.しむ)
medicine Details Story Dictionary 薬 medicine Heisig's Flowers . . . music. Koohii #1 New-age medicine involves using things like music and flowers (aromatherapy) as treatment. Koohii #2 Oh man, this medicinal marijuana is making me hear MUSIC and see FLOWERS everywhere... Primitives medicine, flowers, music, white, dove, sparkler, tree, wood 薬指(くすりゆび): ring finger 農薬(のうやく): agricultural chemicals 薬缶(やかん): kettle 薬品(やくひん): medicine(s), chemical(s) 薬局(やっきょく): pharmacy 薬(くすり): medicine Kunyomi: くすり Onyomi: ヤク Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 薬 (くすり)	medicine 薬 画数16 1873 Details Story Dictionary 薬 medicine Heisig's Flowers . . . music. Koohii #1 New-age medicine involves using things like music and flowers (aromatherapy) as treatment. Koohii #2 Oh man, this medicinal marijuana is making me hear MUSIC and see FLOWERS everywhere... Primitives medicine, flowers, music, white, dove, sparkler, tree, wood 薬指(くすりゆび): ring finger 農薬(のうやく): agricultural chemicals 薬缶(やかん): kettle 薬品(やくひん): medicine(s), chemical(s) 薬局(やっきょく): pharmacy 薬(くすり): medicine Kunyomi: くすり Onyomi: ヤク Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 薬 (くすり)
ratio Details Story Dictionary 率 ratio Heisig's Mysterious . . . sparkler . . . ten. Do not confuse with proportion (Frame 1673). Koohii #1 It´s quite mysterious how each sparkler gives of sparkles at a precise ratio of ten to one. Physicists have been studying this effect for decades, known as the Sparkler Effect, and using it to explain why stars look like sparklers in the night sky. Koohii #2 It's mysterious how there's always a ratio of ten sparklers to one package. Primitives ratio, mysterious, question mark, top hat, cocoon, sparkler, ten, needle 軽率(けいそつ): rash, thoughtless, careless, hasty 効率(こうりつ): efficiency 率直(そっちょく): frankness, candour, openheartedness 統率(とうそつ): command, lead, generalship, leadership 倍率(ばいりつ): diameter, magnification 率いる(ひきいる): to lead, to spearhead (a group), to command (troops) 比率(ひりつ): ratio, proportion, percentage 確率(かくりつ): probability 能率(のうりつ): efficiency 率(りつ): rate, ratio, proportion, percentage Kunyomi: ひき.いる Onyomi: ソツ、リツ、シュツ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 率先 (そっせん), 引率 (いんそつ), 軽率 (けいそつ), 率いる (ひき.いる)	ratio 率 画数11 1874 Details Story Dictionary 率 ratio Heisig's Mysterious . . . sparkler . . . ten. Do not confuse with proportion (Frame 1673). Koohii #1 It´s quite mysterious how each sparkler gives of sparkles at a precise ratio of ten to one. Physicists have been studying this effect for decades, known as the Sparkler Effect, and using it to explain why stars look like sparklers in the night sky. Koohii #2 It's mysterious how there's always a ratio of ten sparklers to one package. Primitives ratio, mysterious, question mark, top hat, cocoon, sparkler, ten, needle 軽率(けいそつ): rash, thoughtless, careless, hasty 効率(こうりつ): efficiency 率直(そっちょく): frankness, candour, openheartedness 統率(とうそつ): command, lead, generalship, leadership 倍率(ばいりつ): diameter, magnification 率いる(ひきいる): to lead, to spearhead (a group), to command (troops) 比率(ひりつ): ratio, proportion, percentage 確率(かくりつ): probability 能率(のうりつ): efficiency 率(りつ): rate, ratio, proportion, percentage Kunyomi: ひき.いる Onyomi: ソツ、リツ、シュツ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 率先 (そっせん), 引率 (いんそつ), 軽率 (けいそつ), 率いる (ひき.いる)
"astringent Details Story Dictionary 渋 astringent Heisig's Water . . . footprint . . . sparkler. Koohii #1 I think that Heisig meant this as the ""slightly bitter but fresh"" meaning that it can have to describe foods like lemons (しぶい). So imagine a guy trying a cocktail (water), feeling like he´s been kicked in the face (footprint) and sparks are flying from his tongue. ´How did it taste?´. ´Hmm, yes, slightly bitter, but fresh"". Koohii #2 If you eat something astringent water will stop the sparkly sensation in your mouth. Primitives astringent, water, water droplets, water pistol, stop, footprint, sparkler 渋い(しぶい): tasteful (clothing), ""cool"", an aura of refined masculinity, astringent, sullen, bitter (taste), grim, quiet, sober, stingy 渋滞(じゅうたい): congestion (e.g. traffic), delay, stagnation Kunyomi: しぶ、しぶ.い、しぶ.る Onyomi: ジュウ、シュウ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 渋 (しぶ), 渋い (しぶ.い), 渋る (しぶ.る)"	"astringent 渋 画数11 1875 Details Story Dictionary 渋 astringent Heisig's Water . . . footprint . . . sparkler. Koohii #1 I think that Heisig meant this as the ""slightly bitter but fresh"" meaning that it can have to describe foods like lemons (しぶい). So imagine a guy trying a cocktail (water), feeling like he´s been kicked in the face (footprint) and sparks are flying from his tongue. ´How did it taste?´. ´Hmm, yes, slightly bitter, but fresh"". Koohii #2 If you eat something astringent water will stop the sparkly sensation in your mouth. Primitives astringent, water, water droplets, water pistol, stop, footprint, sparkler 渋い(しぶい): tasteful (clothing), ""cool"", an aura of refined masculinity, astringent, sullen, bitter (taste), grim, quiet, sober, stingy 渋滞(じゅうたい): congestion (e.g. traffic), delay, stagnation Kunyomi: しぶ、しぶ.い、しぶ.る Onyomi: ジュウ、シュウ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 渋 (しぶ), 渋い (しぶ.い), 渋る (しぶ.る)"
vicarious Details Story Dictionary 摂 vicarious Heisig's Fingers . . . ear . . . sparkler. Do not confuse with substitute (Frame 1080). Koohii #1 Now that I´m a responsible adult, I have to get my vicarious thrills from watching stupid people put sparklers up to their ears and burn their fingers. Koohii #2 I put my fingers in my ears to avoid going deaf while getting a vicarious thrill from watching kids light off sparklers and fireworks on Chinese New Year. Primitives vicarious, finger, fingers, ear, sparkler Kunyomi: おさ.める、かね.る、と.る Onyomi: セツ、ショウ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	vicarious 摂 画数13 1876 Details Story Dictionary 摂 vicarious Heisig's Fingers . . . ear . . . sparkler. Do not confuse with substitute (Frame 1080). Koohii #1 Now that I´m a responsible adult, I have to get my vicarious thrills from watching stupid people put sparklers up to their ears and burn their fingers. Koohii #2 I put my fingers in my ears to avoid going deaf while getting a vicarious thrill from watching kids light off sparklers and fireworks on Chinese New Year. Primitives vicarious, finger, fingers, ear, sparkler Kunyomi: おさ.める、かね.る、と.る Onyomi: セツ、ショウ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
center Details Story Dictionary 央 center Heisig's The elements depict a St. Bernard with its head and paws keeping their stick-like form, but with the middle or center of its body filled out in a box-like shape. Koohii #1 Youve got the st bernard dead centre in your sights (the box). Koohii #2 The center of a dog´s universe is his mouth: bark, eat, bite. What a life! RTK2:　オウ　中央　ちゅうおう(center)…　　　　　　　　　　　　　Semi-Pure Group　(ｴｲ): 英1741　 映1742. Primitives center, large, St. Bernard, box body 中央(ちゅうおう): center, middle, central Kunyomi: Onyomi: オウ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	center 央 画数5 1877 Details Story Dictionary 央 center Heisig's The elements depict a St. Bernard with its head and paws keeping their stick-like form, but with the middle or center of its body filled out in a box-like shape. Koohii #1 Youve got the st bernard dead centre in your sights (the box). Koohii #2 The center of a dog´s universe is his mouth: bark, eat, bite. What a life! RTK2:　オウ　中央　ちゅうおう(center)…　　　　　　　　　　　　　Semi-Pure Group　(ｴｲ): 英1741　 映1742. Primitives center, large, St. Bernard, box body 中央(ちゅうおう): center, middle, central Kunyomi: Onyomi: オウ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
England Details Story Dictionary 英 England Heisig's Flowers . . . center. This is another abbreviation used to identify a country by the pronunciation of the kanji. Koohii #1 The original great seal of the king of England had a very ornate flower in the center. Koohii #2 England is a country where people think they´re the flower at the center of the world. (a description that would fit China much better.. 中華). Primitives England, flowers, centre, center, large, St. Bernard 英字(えいじ): English letter (character) 英雄(えいゆう): hero, great man 英文(えいぶん): sentence in English 英和(えいわ): English-Japanese (e.g. dictionary) 和英(わえい): Japanese-English 英語(えいご): the English language Kunyomi: はなぶさ Onyomi: エイ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:	England 英 画数8 1878 Details Story Dictionary 英 England Heisig's Flowers . . . center. This is another abbreviation used to identify a country by the pronunciation of the kanji. Koohii #1 The original great seal of the king of England had a very ornate flower in the center. Koohii #2 England is a country where people think they´re the flower at the center of the world. (a description that would fit China much better.. 中華). Primitives England, flowers, centre, center, large, St. Bernard 英字(えいじ): English letter (character) 英雄(えいゆう): hero, great man 英文(えいぶん): sentence in English 英和(えいわ): English-Japanese (e.g. dictionary) 和英(わえい): Japanese-English 英語(えいご): the English language Kunyomi: はなぶさ Onyomi: エイ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:
reflect / project Details Story Dictionary 映 reflect / project My Story [Sun/day + central {央}] Can also mean #project#. Picture a rudimentary cinema (映画) where the *sun* is #projected/reflected# into the *center* of the screen. Koohii #1 In the solar system, the Sun is the central source of all light, everything else just reflects it. Koohii #2 A solar power plant consists of thousands of mirrors reflecting the sun´s rays, concentrating the energy on a focal point at the centre. See here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solar_Two. Primitives reflect, sun, day, centre, center, large, St. Bernard 映写(えいしゃ): projection 映像(えいぞう): reflection, image 映える(はえる): to shine, to look attractive, to look pretty 映す(うつす): project, reflect, cast (shadow) 映る(うつる): be reflected, harmonize with 反映(はんえい): reflection, influence 映画(えいが): movie, film 映画館(えいがかん): movie theatre (theater), cinema Kunyomi: うつ.る、うつ.す、は.える、-ば.え Onyomi: エイ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 映す (うつ.す), 映る (うつ.る), 映える (は.える)	reflect / project 映 画数9 1879 Details Story Dictionary 映 reflect / project My Story [Sun/day + central {央}] Can also mean #project#. Picture a rudimentary cinema (映画) where the *sun* is #projected/reflected# into the *center* of the screen. Koohii #1 In the solar system, the Sun is the central source of all light, everything else just reflects it. Koohii #2 A solar power plant consists of thousands of mirrors reflecting the sun´s rays, concentrating the energy on a focal point at the centre. See here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solar_Two. Primitives reflect, sun, day, centre, center, large, St. Bernard 映写(えいしゃ): projection 映像(えいぞう): reflection, image 映える(はえる): to shine, to look attractive, to look pretty 映す(うつす): project, reflect, cast (shadow) 映る(うつる): be reflected, harmonize with 反映(はんえい): reflection, influence 映画(えいが): movie, film 映画館(えいがかん): movie theatre (theater), cinema Kunyomi: うつ.る、うつ.す、は.える、-ば.え Onyomi: エイ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 映す (うつ.す), 映る (うつ.る), 映える (は.える)
red Details Story Dictionary 赤 red Heisig's Ground . . . dagger . . . little. The two strokes of the dagger take the place of the middle stroke of little. * As a primitive on the left, this kanji keeps the same form. Elsewhere, the first two strokes are abbreviated to a single dot. This latter form will take the meaning of an apple. Koohii #1 He was stabbed with a dagger, and little drops of red blood dropped onto the ground. Koohii #2 There was red all over the soil after Little Red Riding Hood plunged a dagger into the wolf. Those two dots we see are wolfies animal legs we see, by the way (a la smithsonian). Primitives red, soil, dirt, ground, sword, dagger, small 赤字(あかじ): deficit, go in the red 赤ちゃん(あかちゃん): baby, infant 赤らむ(あからむ): to become red, to redden, to blush 赤(あか): the color red (noun) 赤道(せきどう): equator 真っ赤(まっか): deep red, flushed (of face) 赤ん坊(あかんぼう): baby 赤い(あかい): red Kunyomi: あか、あか-、あか.い、あか.らむ、あか.らめる Onyomi: セキ、シャク Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 赤道 (せきどう), 赤貧 (せきひん), 発赤 (はつあか), 赤 (あか), 赤い (あか.い), 赤らむ (あか.らむ), 赤らめる (あか.らめる)	red 赤 画数7 1880 Details Story Dictionary 赤 red Heisig's Ground . . . dagger . . . little. The two strokes of the dagger take the place of the middle stroke of little. * As a primitive on the left, this kanji keeps the same form. Elsewhere, the first two strokes are abbreviated to a single dot. This latter form will take the meaning of an apple. Koohii #1 He was stabbed with a dagger, and little drops of red blood dropped onto the ground. Koohii #2 There was red all over the soil after Little Red Riding Hood plunged a dagger into the wolf. Those two dots we see are wolfies animal legs we see, by the way (a la smithsonian). Primitives red, soil, dirt, ground, sword, dagger, small 赤字(あかじ): deficit, go in the red 赤ちゃん(あかちゃん): baby, infant 赤らむ(あからむ): to become red, to redden, to blush 赤(あか): the color red (noun) 赤道(せきどう): equator 真っ赤(まっか): deep red, flushed (of face) 赤ん坊(あかんぼう): baby 赤い(あかい): red Kunyomi: あか、あか-、あか.い、あか.らむ、あか.らめる Onyomi: セキ、シャク Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 赤道 (せきどう), 赤貧 (せきひん), 発赤 (はつあか), 赤 (あか), 赤い (あか.い), 赤らむ (あか.らむ), 赤らめる (あか.らめる)
pardon Details Story Dictionary 赦 pardon Heisig's Red . . . taskmaster. Koohii #1 The student blushed until his face was red, so the schoolmaster decided to pardon him. Koohii #2 There aren´t many pardons given by the Red taskmasters in China. 80% of the world´s death penalties are performed there...　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　シャ　赦免　しゃめん(pardon). Primitives pardon, red, taskmaster Kunyomi: Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	pardon 赦 画数11 1881 Details Story Dictionary 赦 pardon Heisig's Red . . . taskmaster. Koohii #1 The student blushed until his face was red, so the schoolmaster decided to pardon him. Koohii #2 There aren´t many pardons given by the Red taskmasters in China. 80% of the world´s death penalties are performed there...　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　シャ　赦免　しゃめん(pardon). Primitives pardon, red, taskmaster Kunyomi: Onyomi: シャ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"unusual Details Story Dictionary 変 unusual Heisig's Apple . . . walking legs. Koohii #1 It´s quite unusual and abnormal to see an apple with walking legs running away from the person who wants to eat it! Koohii #2 Imagine an apple on walking legs on stage singing ""It´s not unusual to be loved by anyone"" (Tom Jones). Keyword can be confused with uncommon (#1797). Primitives unusual, apple, walking legs 相変わらず(あいかわらず): as ever, as usual, the same 一変(いっぺん): complete change, about-face 変革(へんかく): change, reform, revolution, upheaval, (the) Reformation 変遷(へんせん): change, transition, vicissitudes 変動(へんどう): change, fluctuation 変化(へんか): change, variation, alteration, mutation, transition, transformation, variety, diversity, inflection, declension, conjugation 変更(へんこう): change, modification, alteration 変える(かえる): change 変わる(かわる): change 変(へん): strange Kunyomi: か.わる、か.わり、か.える Onyomi: ヘン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 変える (か.える), 変わる (か.わる)"	"unusual 変 画数9 1882 Details Story Dictionary 変 unusual Heisig's Apple . . . walking legs. Koohii #1 It´s quite unusual and abnormal to see an apple with walking legs running away from the person who wants to eat it! Koohii #2 Imagine an apple on walking legs on stage singing ""It´s not unusual to be loved by anyone"" (Tom Jones). Keyword can be confused with uncommon (#1797). Primitives unusual, apple, walking legs 相変わらず(あいかわらず): as ever, as usual, the same 一変(いっぺん): complete change, about-face 変革(へんかく): change, reform, revolution, upheaval, (the) Reformation 変遷(へんせん): change, transition, vicissitudes 変動(へんどう): change, fluctuation 変化(へんか): change, variation, alteration, mutation, transition, transformation, variety, diversity, inflection, declension, conjugation 変更(へんこう): change, modification, alteration 変える(かえる): change 変わる(かわる): change 変(へん): strange Kunyomi: か.わる、か.わり、か.える Onyomi: ヘン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 変える (か.える), 変わる (か.わる)"
tracks Details Story Dictionary 跡 tracks Heisig's Wooden leg . . . apple. Koohii #1 Pirate pokes the tip of his wooden leg into an apple to disguise his tracks. Koohii #2 To hide his distinctive wood-leg tracks, this pirate is throwing apples after his tracks in order for animals to come and confuse his tracks. Primitives tracks, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, apple 跡継ぎ(あとつぎ): heir, successor 遺跡(いせき): historic ruins (remains relics) 追跡(ついせき): pursuit 跡切れる(とぎれる): to pause, to be interrupted 足跡(あしあと): footprints 跡(あと): trace, tracks, mark, sign, remains, ruins, scar Kunyomi: あと Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 跡 (あと)	tracks 跡 画数13 1883 Details Story Dictionary 跡 tracks Heisig's Wooden leg . . . apple. Koohii #1 Pirate pokes the tip of his wooden leg into an apple to disguise his tracks. Koohii #2 To hide his distinctive wood-leg tracks, this pirate is throwing apples after his tracks in order for animals to come and confuse his tracks. Primitives tracks, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, apple 跡継ぎ(あとつぎ): heir, successor 遺跡(いせき): historic ruins (remains relics) 追跡(ついせき): pursuit 跡切れる(とぎれる): to pause, to be interrupted 足跡(あしあと): footprints 跡(あと): trace, tracks, mark, sign, remains, ruins, scar Kunyomi: あと Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 跡 (あと)
barbarian Details Story Dictionary 蛮 barbarian Heisig's Apple . . . insects. Koohii #1 The barbarian picks an apple from above and eats it even though there is a worm (insect) in it. Koohii #2 Barbarians eat apples with worms still in them. Primitives barbarian, apple, insect Kunyomi: えびす Onyomi: バン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	barbarian 蛮 画数12 1884 Details Story Dictionary 蛮 barbarian Heisig's Apple . . . insects. Koohii #1 The barbarian picks an apple from above and eats it even though there is a worm (insect) in it. Koohii #2 Barbarians eat apples with worms still in them. Primitives barbarian, apple, insect Kunyomi: えびす Onyomi: バン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
romance Details Story Dictionary 恋 romance My Story A *red* *heart* is the symbol for romance Koohii #1 The romance between Snow White and Prince Charming started when Snow White took a bite of poison apple and her heart stopped. Koohii #2 A childhood romance: a boy takes a red apple to school to try to win the heart of his beloved. Primitives romance, apple, heart 恋する(こいする): to fall in love with, to love 恋愛(れんあい): love, love-making, passion, emotion, affections 恋(こい): love, tender passion 恋しい(こいしい): dear, beloved, darling,yearned for 恋人(こいびと): lover, sweetheart 失恋(しつれん): disappointed love, broken heart, unrequited love, be lovelorn, Kunyomi: こ.う、こい、こい.しい Onyomi: レン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 恋う (こ.う), 恋 (こい), 恋しい (こい.しい)	romance 恋 画数10 1885 Details Story Dictionary 恋 romance My Story A *red* *heart* is the symbol for romance Koohii #1 The romance between Snow White and Prince Charming started when Snow White took a bite of poison apple and her heart stopped. Koohii #2 A childhood romance: a boy takes a red apple to school to try to win the heart of his beloved. Primitives romance, apple, heart 恋する(こいする): to fall in love with, to love 恋愛(れんあい): love, love-making, passion, emotion, affections 恋(こい): love, tender passion 恋しい(こいしい): dear, beloved, darling,yearned for 恋人(こいびと): lover, sweetheart 失恋(しつれん): disappointed love, broken heart, unrequited love, be lovelorn, Kunyomi: こ.う、こい、こい.しい Onyomi: レン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 恋う (こ.う), 恋 (こい), 恋しい (こい.しい)
gulf Details Story Dictionary 湾 gulf Heisig's Water . . . apple . . . bow. Koohii #1 In his most daring feat, William tell used his bow to shoot an apple off the head of his son across the water of the gulf. Koohii #2 An army of archers must cross a gulf of water. Fortunately there are millions of apple trees growing in the cliffs above the gulf. The archers use their bows to shoot down apple after apple, which all fall into the water and slowly fill up the the gulf until the archer soliders can cross on foot. Primitives gulf, water, water droplets, water pistol, apple, bow 湾(わん): bay, gulf, inlet Kunyomi: いりえ Onyomi: ワン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	gulf 湾 画数12 1886 Details Story Dictionary 湾 gulf Heisig's Water . . . apple . . . bow. Koohii #1 In his most daring feat, William tell used his bow to shoot an apple off the head of his son across the water of the gulf. Koohii #2 An army of archers must cross a gulf of water. Fortunately there are millions of apple trees growing in the cliffs above the gulf. The archers use their bows to shoot down apple after apple, which all fall into the water and slowly fill up the the gulf until the archer soliders can cross on foot. Primitives gulf, water, water droplets, water pistol, apple, bow 湾(わん): bay, gulf, inlet Kunyomi: いりえ Onyomi: ワン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
yellow Details Story Dictionary 黄 yellow My Story A *fence* cant *freely* move without any yellow *legs* Koohii #1 The salad did not look very appetizing... The sprouts were yellow and there were animal legs sticking out of it. Koohii #2 I order a salad with sprouts. I´m asked if I´d like to add chicken. Yes please. My salad then arrives . . . . topped with these horribly gnarled yellow things. Chicken feet! (animal legs) ugh. Primitives yellow, salad, sprout, shoot, animal legs, eight 黄金(おうごん): gold 黄色(おうしょく): yellow 黄色(きいろ): the color yellow (noun) 黄色い(きいろい): yellow Kunyomi: き、こ- Onyomi: コウ、オウ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 黄葉 (こうよう), 黄 (き)	yellow 黄 画数11 1887 Details Story Dictionary 黄 yellow My Story A *fence* cant *freely* move without any yellow *legs* Koohii #1 The salad did not look very appetizing... The sprouts were yellow and there were animal legs sticking out of it. Koohii #2 I order a salad with sprouts. I´m asked if I´d like to add chicken. Yes please. My salad then arrives . . . . topped with these horribly gnarled yellow things. Chicken feet! (animal legs) ugh. Primitives yellow, salad, sprout, shoot, animal legs, eight 黄金(おうごん): gold 黄色(おうしょく): yellow 黄色(きいろ): the color yellow (noun) 黄色い(きいろい): yellow Kunyomi: き、こ- Onyomi: コウ、オウ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 黄葉 (こうよう), 黄 (き)
sideways Details Story Dictionary 横 sideways Heisig's Tree . . . yellow. Koohii #1 A tree went all yellow. It died and fell down, ending up sideways. Koohii #2 In a horrible accident, a yellow schoolbus gets wrapped sideways around a tree. Primitives sideways, tree, wood, yellow, salad, sprout, shoot, animal legs, eight 横綱(よこづな): sumo grand champion 横断(おうだん): crossing 横切る(よこぎる): cross (e.g. arms), traverse 横(よこ): beside, side, width Kunyomi: よこ Onyomi: オウ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 横 (よこ)	sideways 横 画数15 1888 Details Story Dictionary 横 sideways Heisig's Tree . . . yellow. Koohii #1 A tree went all yellow. It died and fell down, ending up sideways. Koohii #2 In a horrible accident, a yellow schoolbus gets wrapped sideways around a tree. Primitives sideways, tree, wood, yellow, salad, sprout, shoot, animal legs, eight 横綱(よこづな): sumo grand champion 横断(おうだん): crossing 横切る(よこぎる): cross (e.g. arms), traverse 横(よこ): beside, side, width Kunyomi: よこ Onyomi: オウ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 横 (よこ)
grasp Details Story Dictionary 把 grasp Heisig's Fingers . . . mosaic. Koohii #1 Japanese censorship laws require pornos to use a mosaic screen, so you can´t see what the porno chick is grasping with her fingers (but you can assume, neetch). Koohii #2 Your fingers grasp the Rubic´s cube... if only your brain could too. Primitives grasp, finger, fingers, mosaic 把握(はあく): grasp, catch, understanding Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハ、ワ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	grasp 把 画数7 1889 Details Story Dictionary 把 grasp Heisig's Fingers . . . mosaic. Koohii #1 Japanese censorship laws require pornos to use a mosaic screen, so you can´t see what the porno chick is grasping with her fingers (but you can assume, neetch). Koohii #2 Your fingers grasp the Rubic´s cube... if only your brain could too. Primitives grasp, finger, fingers, mosaic 把握(はあく): grasp, catch, understanding Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハ、ワ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
color Details Story Dictionary 色 color Heisig's Bound up . . . mosaic. Koohii #1 Ever look closely at mosaics? They contain a bunch of images bound up into a larger one. It seems amazing until you realize that the only quality of the smaller images that really matters is their colour. Koohii #2 Bound up in the Rubik´s cube are the 6 different colours. Primitives color, bound up, mosaic 色々(いろいろ): various 黄色(おうしょく): yellow 音色(おんいろ): tone color, tone quality, timbre, synthesizer patch 脚色(きゃくしょく): dramatization (e.g. film) 色彩(しきさい): colour, hue, tints 着色(ちゃくしょく): colouring, coloring 黄色(きいろ): the color yellow (noun) 茶色い(ちゃいろい): brown (adjective) 特色(とくしょく): characteristic, feature 灰色(はいいろ): grey, ashen 景色(けしき): scenery 色(いろ): color, sensuality, lust 黄色い(きいろい): yellow 茶色(ちゃいろ): light brown, tawny Kunyomi: いろ Onyomi: ショク、シキ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 原色 (げんしょく), 特色 (とくしょく), 物色 (ぶっしょく), 色 (いろ)	color 色 画数6 1890 Details Story Dictionary 色 color Heisig's Bound up . . . mosaic. Koohii #1 Ever look closely at mosaics? They contain a bunch of images bound up into a larger one. It seems amazing until you realize that the only quality of the smaller images that really matters is their colour. Koohii #2 Bound up in the Rubik´s cube are the 6 different colours. Primitives color, bound up, mosaic 色々(いろいろ): various 黄色(おうしょく): yellow 音色(おんいろ): tone color, tone quality, timbre, synthesizer patch 脚色(きゃくしょく): dramatization (e.g. film) 色彩(しきさい): colour, hue, tints 着色(ちゃくしょく): colouring, coloring 黄色(きいろ): the color yellow (noun) 茶色い(ちゃいろい): brown (adjective) 特色(とくしょく): characteristic, feature 灰色(はいいろ): grey, ashen 景色(けしき): scenery 色(いろ): color, sensuality, lust 黄色い(きいろい): yellow 茶色(ちゃいろ): light brown, tawny Kunyomi: いろ Onyomi: ショク、シキ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 原色 (げんしょく), 特色 (とくしょく), 物色 (ぶっしょく), 色 (いろ)
discontinue Details Story Dictionary 絶 discontinue My Story They discontinued my favorite *thread* *color*, how will I sew this patch ? Koohii #1 I can't finish my sewing project because the thread color I was using was discontinued. Koohii #2 As times move on and fashion tastes inevitably change, threads of certain colors often get discontinued. Primitives discontinue, thread, spiderman, colour, color, bound up, mosaic 拒絶(きょぜつ): refusal, rejection 謝絶(しゃぜつ): refusal 絶版(ぜっぱん): out of print 絶望(ぜつぼう): despair, hopelessness 絶える(たえる): to die out, to peter out, to become extinct 絶つ(たつ): to sever, to cut off, to suppress, to abstain (from) 途絶える(とだえる): to stop, to cease, to come to an end 絶対(ぜったい): absolute, unconditional, absoluteness 絶滅(ぜつめつ): destruction, extinction 絶えず(たえず): constantly Kunyomi: た.える、た.やす、た.つ Onyomi: ゼツ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 絶える (た.える), 絶つ (た.つ), 絶やす (た.やす)	discontinue 絶 画数12 1891 Details Story Dictionary 絶 discontinue My Story They discontinued my favorite *thread* *color*, how will I sew this patch ? Koohii #1 I can't finish my sewing project because the thread color I was using was discontinued. Koohii #2 As times move on and fashion tastes inevitably change, threads of certain colors often get discontinued. Primitives discontinue, thread, spiderman, colour, color, bound up, mosaic 拒絶(きょぜつ): refusal, rejection 謝絶(しゃぜつ): refusal 絶版(ぜっぱん): out of print 絶望(ぜつぼう): despair, hopelessness 絶える(たえる): to die out, to peter out, to become extinct 絶つ(たつ): to sever, to cut off, to suppress, to abstain (from) 途絶える(とだえる): to stop, to cease, to come to an end 絶対(ぜったい): absolute, unconditional, absoluteness 絶滅(ぜつめつ): destruction, extinction 絶えず(たえず): constantly Kunyomi: た.える、た.やす、た.つ Onyomi: ゼツ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 絶える (た.える), 絶つ (た.つ), 絶やす (た.やす)
glossy Details Story Dictionary 艶 glossy Heisig's Bountiful . . . color. Koohii #1 To print something with bountiful colour, they use glossy paper. Koohii #2 Glossy prints bring out bountiful colors more so than matte...　　　　　RTK2:　エン　艶聞　えんぶん(love affair). Primitives glossy, bountiful, bend, beans, table, one, mouth, colour, color, bound up, mosaic 艶(えん): charming, fascinating, voluptuous 艶(つや): gloss, glaze Kunyomi: つや、なま.めかしい、あで.やか、つや.めく、なま.めく Onyomi: エン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 艶 (つや)	glossy 艶 画数19 1892 Details Story Dictionary 艶 glossy Heisig's Bountiful . . . color. Koohii #1 To print something with bountiful colour, they use glossy paper. Koohii #2 Glossy prints bring out bountiful colors more so than matte...　　　　　RTK2:　エン　艶聞　えんぶん(love affair). Primitives glossy, bountiful, bend, beans, table, one, mouth, colour, color, bound up, mosaic 艶(えん): charming, fascinating, voluptuous 艶(つや): gloss, glaze Kunyomi: つや、なま.めかしい、あで.やか、つや.めく、なま.めく Onyomi: エン Lesson: 45 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 艶 (つや)
fertilizer Details Story Dictionary 肥 fertilizer Heisig's Flesh . . . mosaic. Koohii #1 PART OF YOUR BODY excretes something that is commonly used for FERTILIZER. Sometimes this process is slow, so you solve a RUBIK´S CUBE while you sit and wait. Koohii #2 If you´re sick, a part of your body may produce fertilizer that makes a colorful mosaic. Primitives fertilizer, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, mosaic 肥料(ひりょう): manure, fertilizer Kunyomi: こ.える、こえ、こ.やす、こ.やし、ふと.る Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 肥える (こ.える), 肥やし (こ.やし), 肥やす (こ.やす), 肥 (こえ)	fertilizer 肥 画数8 1893 Details Story Dictionary 肥 fertilizer Heisig's Flesh . . . mosaic. Koohii #1 PART OF YOUR BODY excretes something that is commonly used for FERTILIZER. Sometimes this process is slow, so you solve a RUBIK´S CUBE while you sit and wait. Koohii #2 If you´re sick, a part of your body may produce fertilizer that makes a colorful mosaic. Primitives fertilizer, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, mosaic 肥料(ひりょう): manure, fertilizer Kunyomi: こ.える、こえ、こ.やす、こ.やし、ふと.る Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 45 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 肥える (こ.える), 肥やし (こ.やし), 肥やす (こ.やす), 肥 (こえ)
sweet Details Story Dictionary 甘 sweet Heisig's This kanji is a pictograph of a small wicker basket. (The extra short stroke in the middle helps keep it distinct from the character for twenty.) All one needs to add is some image of sweet cakes or breads carried in the basket, and the union of picture and meaning is complete. Take care not to confuse with confectionary (Frame 1203). * As a primitive, the pictograph's meaning of a wicker basket is used, a small one like the kind used for picnics. Koohii #1 Little red riding hood is carrying around a wicker basket filled with sweet baked cookies for granny. Koohii #2 Girls are kinda sweet and sexy until they reach their twenties. So 20 minus ONE. Primitives sweet, wicker basket, picnic basket 甘える(あまえる): to behave like a spoiled child, to fawn on 甘口(あまくち): sweet flavour, mildness, flattery, stupidity 甘い(うまい): delicious 甘やかす(あまやかす): pamper, spoil 甘い(あまい): delicious Kunyomi: あま.い、あま.える、あま.やかす、うま.い Onyomi: カン Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 甘い (あま.い), 甘える (あま.える), 甘やかす (あま.やかす)	sweet 甘 画数5 1894 Details Story Dictionary 甘 sweet Heisig's This kanji is a pictograph of a small wicker basket. (The extra short stroke in the middle helps keep it distinct from the character for twenty.) All one needs to add is some image of sweet cakes or breads carried in the basket, and the union of picture and meaning is complete. Take care not to confuse with confectionary (Frame 1203). * As a primitive, the pictograph's meaning of a wicker basket is used, a small one like the kind used for picnics. Koohii #1 Little red riding hood is carrying around a wicker basket filled with sweet baked cookies for granny. Koohii #2 Girls are kinda sweet and sexy until they reach their twenties. So 20 minus ONE. Primitives sweet, wicker basket, picnic basket 甘える(あまえる): to behave like a spoiled child, to fawn on 甘口(あまくち): sweet flavour, mildness, flattery, stupidity 甘い(うまい): delicious 甘やかす(あまやかす): pamper, spoil 甘い(あまい): delicious Kunyomi: あま.い、あま.える、あま.やかす、うま.い Onyomi: カン Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 甘い (あま.い), 甘える (あま.える), 甘やかす (あま.やかす)
navy blue Details Story Dictionary 紺 navy blue Heisig's Thread . . . wicker basket. Koohii #1 Thanks raulir - As many Japanese perverts know, navy blue threads conceal school girl sweetness underneath. Koohii #2 Much like Violet Beauregarde from Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Spiderman failed to heed Willy Wonka´s warnings, and upon chewing on the 3 course meal chewing gum turned a very navy shade of navy blue. Primitives navy blue, thread, spiderman, sweet, wicker basket, picnic basket 紺(こん): navy blue, deep blue Kunyomi: Onyomi: コン Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	navy blue 紺 画数11 1895 Details Story Dictionary 紺 navy blue Heisig's Thread . . . wicker basket. Koohii #1 Thanks raulir - As many Japanese perverts know, navy blue threads conceal school girl sweetness underneath. Koohii #2 Much like Violet Beauregarde from Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Spiderman failed to heed Willy Wonka´s warnings, and upon chewing on the 3 course meal chewing gum turned a very navy shade of navy blue. Primitives navy blue, thread, spiderman, sweet, wicker basket, picnic basket 紺(こん): navy blue, deep blue Kunyomi: Onyomi: コン Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
so-and-so Details Story Dictionary 某 so-and-so Heisig's The key word here refers to the adjective for an unspecified person or thing. Its elements: wicker basket . . . tree. Koohii #1 I had the same idea as fuabrisu. A generic person is described here as having body sort of like a tree trunk and head sort of like a wicker basket. Koohii #2 Two girls with a lollipop in a tree gossiping´ so-and so did this.´ ´really? so-and what did she do´ ´ o she is sooo wrong..´. Primitives so-and-so, sweet, wicker basket, picnic basket, tree, wood Kunyomi: それがし、なにがし Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	so-and-so 某 画数9 1896 Details Story Dictionary 某 so-and-so Heisig's The key word here refers to the adjective for an unspecified person or thing. Its elements: wicker basket . . . tree. Koohii #1 I had the same idea as fuabrisu. A generic person is described here as having body sort of like a tree trunk and head sort of like a wicker basket. Koohii #2 Two girls with a lollipop in a tree gossiping´ so-and so did this.´ ´really? so-and what did she do´ ´ o she is sooo wrong..´. Primitives so-and-so, sweet, wicker basket, picnic basket, tree, wood Kunyomi: それがし、なにがし Onyomi: ボウ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"conspire Details Story Dictionary 謀 conspire Heisig's Words . . . so-and-so. Koohii #1 I imagine a clique of catty girls conspiring against a another girl...they are exchanging lots of words, chatting about how so-and-so girl is now up to such-and-such (gasp!), and how they will spread the word about it. Koohii #2 You might hear the words of someone conspiring... ""If you do so-and-so..."". Primitives conspire, say, words, keitai, mouth, so-and-so, sweet, wicker basket, picnic basket, tree, wood Kunyomi: はか.る、たばか.る、はかりごと Onyomi: ボウ、ム Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 謀略 (ぼうりゃく), 無謀 (むぼう), 首謀者 (しゅぼうしゃ), 謀る (はか.る)"	"conspire 謀 画数16 1897 Details Story Dictionary 謀 conspire Heisig's Words . . . so-and-so. Koohii #1 I imagine a clique of catty girls conspiring against a another girl...they are exchanging lots of words, chatting about how so-and-so girl is now up to such-and-such (gasp!), and how they will spread the word about it. Koohii #2 You might hear the words of someone conspiring... ""If you do so-and-so..."". Primitives conspire, say, words, keitai, mouth, so-and-so, sweet, wicker basket, picnic basket, tree, wood Kunyomi: はか.る、たばか.る、はかりごと Onyomi: ボウ、ム Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 謀略 (ぼうりゃく), 無謀 (むぼう), 首謀者 (しゅぼうしゃ), 謀る (はか.る)"
"mediator Details Story Dictionary 媒 mediator Heisig's Woman . . . so-and-so. Koohii #1 The woman 女 hoped her friend would act as mediator to set her up with the guy she liked. She didn't mention his name, just referred to him as ""A certain unnamed person -- I'll call him 'Mr. So-and-So 某' ...."" Koohii #2 The two little gossiping girls with their lollipops are having a fight. Now an adult woman (mom or teacher) has to come between them an serve as a mediator. Primitives mediator, woman, so-and-so, sweet, wicker basket, picnic basket, tree, wood Kunyomi: なこうど Onyomi: バイ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"mediator 媒 画数12 1898 Details Story Dictionary 媒 mediator Heisig's Woman . . . so-and-so. Koohii #1 The woman 女 hoped her friend would act as mediator to set her up with the guy she liked. She didn't mention his name, just referred to him as ""A certain unnamed person -- I'll call him 'Mr. So-and-So 某' ...."" Koohii #2 The two little gossiping girls with their lollipops are having a fight. Now an adult woman (mom or teacher) has to come between them an serve as a mediator. Primitives mediator, woman, so-and-so, sweet, wicker basket, picnic basket, tree, wood Kunyomi: なこうど Onyomi: バイ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
deceit Details Story Dictionary 欺 deceit Heisig's Bushel basket . . . yawn. Koohii #1 He escaped using deceit. That is, he ran past while the guard was yawning and hid in the bushel basket. Koohii #2 Every day, a smuggler takes bushel baskets on donkeys across the border. But the border patrols can never arrest him for lack of evidence no matter how much they search the bushel baskets: they can´t find whatever he is smuggling. What was his deceit? He was smuggling donkeys! Primitives deceit, bushel basket, hamper, animal legs, eight, lack, yawn 欺く(あざむく): to deceive 詐欺(さぎ): fraud, swindle Kunyomi: あざむ.く Onyomi: ギ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 欺く (あざむ.く)	deceit 欺 画数12 1899 Details Story Dictionary 欺 deceit Heisig's Bushel basket . . . yawn. Koohii #1 He escaped using deceit. That is, he ran past while the guard was yawning and hid in the bushel basket. Koohii #2 Every day, a smuggler takes bushel baskets on donkeys across the border. But the border patrols can never arrest him for lack of evidence no matter how much they search the bushel baskets: they can´t find whatever he is smuggling. What was his deceit? He was smuggling donkeys! Primitives deceit, bushel basket, hamper, animal legs, eight, lack, yawn 欺く(あざむく): to deceive 詐欺(さぎ): fraud, swindle Kunyomi: あざむ.く Onyomi: ギ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 欺く (あざむ.く)
chess piece Details Story Dictionary 棋 chess piece Heisig's Tree . . . bushel basket. Koohii #1 Tree + Bushel Bucket: Chess pieces carved from trees were tossed into a bushel bucket for sorting into sets. Koohii #2 Ever seen those huge chess games in parks? The large wooden chess pieces need to be carted in a shopping trolley. Primitives chess piece, tree, wood, bushel basket, hamper, animal legs, eight 将棋(しょうぎ): Japanese chess Kunyomi: ご Onyomi: キ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	chess piece 棋 画数12 1900 Details Story Dictionary 棋 chess piece Heisig's Tree . . . bushel basket. Koohii #1 Tree + Bushel Bucket: Chess pieces carved from trees were tossed into a bushel bucket for sorting into sets. Koohii #2 Ever seen those huge chess games in parks? The large wooden chess pieces need to be carted in a shopping trolley. Primitives chess piece, tree, wood, bushel basket, hamper, animal legs, eight 将棋(しょうぎ): Japanese chess Kunyomi: ご Onyomi: キ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
national flag Details Story Dictionary 旗 national flag Heisig's Banner . . . bushel basket. Koohii #1 The national flag of Croatia. It's a banner with the Croatian coat of arms, commonly referred to as the Chessboard (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coat_of_arms_of_Croatia). Koohii #2 The national flag is the banner of a country; stored in a whicker basket at night and taken out to the flagpole in the morning. Primitives national flag, banner, compass, direction reclining, lying down, bushel basket, hamper, animal legs, eight 旗(はた): flag Kunyomi: はた Onyomi: キ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 旗 (はた)	national flag 旗 画数14 1901 Details Story Dictionary 旗 national flag Heisig's Banner . . . bushel basket. Koohii #1 The national flag of Croatia. It's a banner with the Croatian coat of arms, commonly referred to as the Chessboard (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coat_of_arms_of_Croatia). Koohii #2 The national flag is the banner of a country; stored in a whicker basket at night and taken out to the flagpole in the morning. Primitives national flag, banner, compass, direction reclining, lying down, bushel basket, hamper, animal legs, eight 旗(はた): flag Kunyomi: はた Onyomi: キ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 旗 (はた)
period Details Story Dictionary 期 period Heisig's Bushel basket . . . month. As the month indicates, this has to do with periods of time. Koohii #1 The slowest remote chess game ever: a one month period between every move. Koohii #2 The girl´s panties are all in the bushel basket as it´s that time of the month again... her period. Primitives period, bushel basket, hamper, animal legs, eight, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 画期(かっき): epoch-making 期(き): period, time 期日(きじつ): fixed date, settlement date 期末(きまつ): end of term 周期(しゅうき): cycle, period 末期(まっき): closing years (period days), last stage 延期(えんき): postponement, adjournment 学期(がっき): school term 期間(きかん): period, term 期限(きげん): term, period 期待(きたい): expectation, anticipation, hope 時期(じき): time, season, period 短期(たんき): short term 長期(ちょうき): long time period 定期(ていき): fixed term 定期券(ていきけん): commuter pass, season ticket 予期(よき): expectation, assume will happen, forecast Kunyomi: Onyomi: キ、ゴ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 期間 (きかん), 期待 (きたい), 予期 (よき)	period 期 画数12 1902 Details Story Dictionary 期 period Heisig's Bushel basket . . . month. As the month indicates, this has to do with periods of time. Koohii #1 The slowest remote chess game ever: a one month period between every move. Koohii #2 The girl´s panties are all in the bushel basket as it´s that time of the month again... her period. Primitives period, bushel basket, hamper, animal legs, eight, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 画期(かっき): epoch-making 期(き): period, time 期日(きじつ): fixed date, settlement date 期末(きまつ): end of term 周期(しゅうき): cycle, period 末期(まっき): closing years (period days), last stage 延期(えんき): postponement, adjournment 学期(がっき): school term 期間(きかん): period, term 期限(きげん): term, period 期待(きたい): expectation, anticipation, hope 時期(じき): time, season, period 短期(たんき): short term 長期(ちょうき): long time period 定期(ていき): fixed term 定期券(ていきけん): commuter pass, season ticket 予期(よき): expectation, assume will happen, forecast Kunyomi: Onyomi: キ、ゴ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 期間 (きかん), 期待 (きたい), 予期 (よき)
Go Details Story Dictionary 碁 Go Heisig's Bushel basket . . . stones. The key word refers to the Japanese game played with black and white colored stones on a lined board. Koohii #1 Go is chess played with stones. Koohii #2 The ignorant gaijin put a rook on top of his opponent´s stone when playing Go, much to the consternation of the Japanese players. Primitives go, bushel basket, hamper, animal legs, eight, stone, rock 碁盤(ごばん): Go board 碁(ご): go (board game) Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	Go 碁 画数13 1903 Details Story Dictionary 碁 Go Heisig's Bushel basket . . . stones. The key word refers to the Japanese game played with black and white colored stones on a lined board. Koohii #1 Go is chess played with stones. Koohii #2 The ignorant gaijin put a rook on top of his opponent´s stone when playing Go, much to the consternation of the Japanese players. Primitives go, bushel basket, hamper, animal legs, eight, stone, rock 碁盤(ごばん): Go board 碁(ご): go (board game) Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
fundamentals Details Story Dictionary 基 fundamentals Heisig's Bushel basket . . . soil. Koohii #1 Fundamentals of chess: use the rooks to protect your ground. Koohii #2 A Bushel-basket full of earth contains the fundementals of farming. i.e. earth. Primitives fundamentals, bushel basket, hamper, animal legs, eight, soil, dirt, ground 基金(ききん): fund, foundation 基準(きじゅん): standard, basis, criteria, norm 基(もとい): basis 基礎(きそ): foundation, basis 基地(きち): base 基盤(きばん): foundation, basis 基本(きほん): foundation, basis, standard 基(もと): basis 基づく(もとづく): be grounded on, be based on, be due to, originate from Kunyomi: もと、もとい Onyomi: キ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 基 (もと), 基 (もとい)	fundamentals 基 画数11 1904 Details Story Dictionary 基 fundamentals Heisig's Bushel basket . . . soil. Koohii #1 Fundamentals of chess: use the rooks to protect your ground. Koohii #2 A Bushel-basket full of earth contains the fundementals of farming. i.e. earth. Primitives fundamentals, bushel basket, hamper, animal legs, eight, soil, dirt, ground 基金(ききん): fund, foundation 基準(きじゅん): standard, basis, criteria, norm 基(もとい): basis 基礎(きそ): foundation, basis 基地(きち): base 基盤(きばん): foundation, basis 基本(きほん): foundation, basis, standard 基(もと): basis 基づく(もとづく): be grounded on, be based on, be due to, originate from Kunyomi: もと、もとい Onyomi: キ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 基 (もと), 基 (もとい)
tremendously Details Story Dictionary 甚 tremendously Heisig's Bushel basket . . . equal. Note how the first stroke of equal doubles up with the sixth stroke of the bushel basket, and how the animal legs of the bushel basket are dropped to make room for the human legs of equal. Koohii #1 It´s a tremendous match between the two chess-players. They are clearly eachother´s equal. Koohii #2 These two bushel baskets are tremendously huge. But not only they are huge, they are also perfectly equal in size. Primitives tremendously, bushel basket, hamper, equal, human legs 甚だ(はなはだ): very, greatly, exceedingly 甚だしい(はなはだしい): extreme, excessive, terrible, intense, severe, serious, tremendous Kunyomi: はなは.だ、はなは.だしい Onyomi: ジン Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 甚だ (はなは.だ), 甚だしい (はなは.だしい)	tremendously 甚 画数9 1905 Details Story Dictionary 甚 tremendously Heisig's Bushel basket . . . equal. Note how the first stroke of equal doubles up with the sixth stroke of the bushel basket, and how the animal legs of the bushel basket are dropped to make room for the human legs of equal. Koohii #1 It´s a tremendous match between the two chess-players. They are clearly eachother´s equal. Koohii #2 These two bushel baskets are tremendously huge. But not only they are huge, they are also perfectly equal in size. Primitives tremendously, bushel basket, hamper, equal, human legs 甚だ(はなはだ): very, greatly, exceedingly 甚だしい(はなはだしい): extreme, excessive, terrible, intense, severe, serious, tremendous Kunyomi: はなは.だ、はなは.だしい Onyomi: ジン Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 甚だ (はなは.だ), 甚だしい (はなは.だしい)
"intuition Details Story Dictionary 勘 intuition Heisig's Tremendously . . . muscle. Koohii #1 Intuition is a tremendously powerful resource of the mind. Koohii #2 Using Zareon´s story for the previous frame ""tremendously""... The two chessplayers who are eachother´s equals are so good at chess that they don´t have to even move a muscle. Their brain power does it for them. Furthermore, they don´t even have to think, really. Their intuition takes control. This is: extreme chess. Primitives intuition, tremendously, bushel basket, hamper, equal, human legs, power, muscle, arnold 勘弁(かんべん): pardon, forgiveness, forbearance 勘(かん): perception, intuition 勘定(かんじょう): calculation, settlement of an account, allowance 勘違い(かんちがい): misunderstanding, wrong guess Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"intuition 勘 画数11 1906 Details Story Dictionary 勘 intuition Heisig's Tremendously . . . muscle. Koohii #1 Intuition is a tremendously powerful resource of the mind. Koohii #2 Using Zareon´s story for the previous frame ""tremendously""... The two chessplayers who are eachother´s equals are so good at chess that they don´t have to even move a muscle. Their brain power does it for them. Furthermore, they don´t even have to think, really. Their intuition takes control. This is: extreme chess. Primitives intuition, tremendously, bushel basket, hamper, equal, human legs, power, muscle, arnold 勘弁(かんべん): pardon, forgiveness, forbearance 勘(かん): perception, intuition 勘定(かんじょう): calculation, settlement of an account, allowance 勘違い(かんちがい): misunderstanding, wrong guess Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
withstand Details Story Dictionary 堪 withstand Heisig's Soil . . . tremendously. Koohii #1 Because I hid myself behind a huge dirt barrier I dug, I was able to withstand the tremendous nuclear blast. Koohii #2 Plain old soil can withstand tremendous amounts of pressure. Primitives withstand, soil, dirt, ground, tremendously, bushel basket, hamper, equal, human legs 堪える(こたえる): to bear, to stand, to endure, to put up with, to support, to withstand, to resist, to brave, to be fit for, to be equal to 堪える(こらえる): to bear, to stand, to endure, to put up with, to support, to withstand, to resist, to brave, to be fit for, to be equal to 堪える(たえる): to bear, to stand, to endure, to put up with, to support, to withstand, to resist, to brave, to be fit for, to be equal to 堪らない(たまらない): intolerable, unbearable, unendurable Kunyomi: た.える、たま.る、こ.らえる、こた.える Onyomi: カン、タン Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 堪える (た.える)	withstand 堪 画数12 1907 Details Story Dictionary 堪 withstand Heisig's Soil . . . tremendously. Koohii #1 Because I hid myself behind a huge dirt barrier I dug, I was able to withstand the tremendous nuclear blast. Koohii #2 Plain old soil can withstand tremendous amounts of pressure. Primitives withstand, soil, dirt, ground, tremendously, bushel basket, hamper, equal, human legs 堪える(こたえる): to bear, to stand, to endure, to put up with, to support, to withstand, to resist, to brave, to be fit for, to be equal to 堪える(こらえる): to bear, to stand, to endure, to put up with, to support, to withstand, to resist, to brave, to be fit for, to be equal to 堪える(たえる): to bear, to stand, to endure, to put up with, to support, to withstand, to resist, to brave, to be fit for, to be equal to 堪らない(たまらない): intolerable, unbearable, unendurable Kunyomi: た.える、たま.る、こ.らえる、こた.える Onyomi: カン、タン Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 堪える (た.える)
"precious Details Story Dictionary 貴 precious Heisig's Purse . . . shells. Koohii #1 Inside your purse is all of your money and your keys (き) etc. All of your precious valuables. Koohii #2 Frodo kept the precious in the purse but did a switch with some worthless shells when he went to sleep. Heres gollum opening the purse ""ahhh my preciousssssss.....why you m***** *****!!!!!. Primitives precious, Takanohana, purse, in, one, floor, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 貴女(あなた): you, lady 貴族(きぞく): noble, aristocrat 貴い(たっとい): precious, valuable, priceless, noble, exalted, sacred 貴重(きちょう): precious, valuable Kunyomi: たっと.い、とうと.い、たっと.ぶ、とうと.ぶ Onyomi: キ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 貴い (たっと.い), 貴ぶ (たっと.ぶ), 貴い (とうと.い), 貴ぶ (とうと.ぶ)"	"precious 貴 画数12 1908 Details Story Dictionary 貴 precious Heisig's Purse . . . shells. Koohii #1 Inside your purse is all of your money and your keys (き) etc. All of your precious valuables. Koohii #2 Frodo kept the precious in the purse but did a switch with some worthless shells when he went to sleep. Heres gollum opening the purse ""ahhh my preciousssssss.....why you m***** *****!!!!!. Primitives precious, Takanohana, purse, in, one, floor, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 貴女(あなた): you, lady 貴族(きぞく): noble, aristocrat 貴い(たっとい): precious, valuable, priceless, noble, exalted, sacred 貴重(きちょう): precious, valuable Kunyomi: たっと.い、とうと.い、たっと.ぶ、とうと.ぶ Onyomi: キ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 貴い (たっと.い), 貴ぶ (たっと.ぶ), 貴い (とうと.い), 貴ぶ (とうと.ぶ)"
"bequeath Details Story Dictionary 遺 bequeath Heisig's Precious . . . road. Koohii #1 Bequeath is an odd old word, isn´t it? Basically, it just deals with how I want my precious possessions dealt out, after I die, later down the road. ""Being of sound, but antiquated, mind, I bequeath this to you!"". Koohii #2 Bilbo bequeathes the ""PRECIOUS"" to Frodo, who will carry it on the long ROAD to Mordor. Primitives bequeath, precious, Takanohana, purse, in, one, floor, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, road 遺跡(いせき): historic ruins (remains relics) Kunyomi: のこ.す Onyomi: イ、ユイ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 遺棄 (いき), 遺産 (いさん), 遺失 (いしつ)"	"bequeath 遺 画数15 1909 Details Story Dictionary 遺 bequeath Heisig's Precious . . . road. Koohii #1 Bequeath is an odd old word, isn´t it? Basically, it just deals with how I want my precious possessions dealt out, after I die, later down the road. ""Being of sound, but antiquated, mind, I bequeath this to you!"". Koohii #2 Bilbo bequeathes the ""PRECIOUS"" to Frodo, who will carry it on the long ROAD to Mordor. Primitives bequeath, precious, Takanohana, purse, in, one, floor, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, road 遺跡(いせき): historic ruins (remains relics) Kunyomi: のこ.す Onyomi: イ、ユイ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 遺棄 (いき), 遺産 (いさん), 遺失 (いしつ)"
"dispatch Details Story Dictionary 遣 dispatch Heisig's This kanji takes away the maestro's baton and replaces it with a purse. The road represents his being dispatched on his way a san obvious misfit. You will remember that when he did have his baton, he was being chased down the road by his fans. All of which shows what a difference a single stroke can make! Koohii #1 Bond has stolen a lady spy's purse while she was asleep after their evening together. When she discovers it's gone, she dispatches some henchmen on the road after him to dispatch him, but Bond evades them and escapes with the purse. Koohii #2 Apart from meaning DISPATCH, this kanji can mean ""to give (to someone lower than you),"" ""to do,"" and to even ""have intercourse."" STORY: The MAESTRO is on the ROAD waiting for a pimp to DISPATCH some new ladies (lower than him) so that he can GIVE THEM money from his PURSE and then DO IT with them. Where is the MAESTRO´S baton? You don´t wanna know... Primitives dispatch, purse, in, one, floor, maestro without baton, road 遣い(つかい): mission, simple task, doing 派遣(はけん): dispatch, send 無駄遣い(むだづかい): waste money on, squander money on, flog a dead horse 遣り通す(やりとおす): to carry through, to achieve, to complete 遣る(やる): to do, to have sexual intercourse, to kill, to give (to inferiors animals etc.), to dispatch (a letter), to send, to study, to perform, to play (sports game), to have (eat drink smoke), to row (a boat), to run or operate (a restaurant) 仮名遣い(かなづかい): kana orthography, syllabary spelling 小遣い(こづかい): personal expenses, pocket money, spending money, incidental expenses, allowance 言葉遣い(ことばづかい): speech, expression, wording Kunyomi: つか.う、-つか.い、-づか.い、つか.わす、や.る Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 遣う (つか.う), 遣わす (つか.わす)"	"dispatch 遣 画数13 1910 Details Story Dictionary 遣 dispatch Heisig's This kanji takes away the maestro's baton and replaces it with a purse. The road represents his being dispatched on his way a san obvious misfit. You will remember that when he did have his baton, he was being chased down the road by his fans. All of which shows what a difference a single stroke can make! Koohii #1 Bond has stolen a lady spy's purse while she was asleep after their evening together. When she discovers it's gone, she dispatches some henchmen on the road after him to dispatch him, but Bond evades them and escapes with the purse. Koohii #2 Apart from meaning DISPATCH, this kanji can mean ""to give (to someone lower than you),"" ""to do,"" and to even ""have intercourse."" STORY: The MAESTRO is on the ROAD waiting for a pimp to DISPATCH some new ladies (lower than him) so that he can GIVE THEM money from his PURSE and then DO IT with them. Where is the MAESTRO´S baton? You don´t wanna know... Primitives dispatch, purse, in, one, floor, maestro without baton, road 遣い(つかい): mission, simple task, doing 派遣(はけん): dispatch, send 無駄遣い(むだづかい): waste money on, squander money on, flog a dead horse 遣り通す(やりとおす): to carry through, to achieve, to complete 遣る(やる): to do, to have sexual intercourse, to kill, to give (to inferiors animals etc.), to dispatch (a letter), to send, to study, to perform, to play (sports game), to have (eat drink smoke), to row (a boat), to run or operate (a restaurant) 仮名遣い(かなづかい): kana orthography, syllabary spelling 小遣い(こづかい): personal expenses, pocket money, spending money, incidental expenses, allowance 言葉遣い(ことばづかい): speech, expression, wording Kunyomi: つか.う、-つか.い、-づか.い、つか.わす、や.る Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 遣う (つか.う), 遣わす (つか.わす)"
"defile Details Story Dictionary 潰 defile Heisig's Water . . . precious. Koohii #1 Man continues to defile precious water and it may prove to be his downfall (Think of Exxon, BP, etc.). Koohii #2 ...Faramir and Frodo watched the tiny creature far below. ""Shall we shoot him?"" Faramir asked. ""This Gollum has defiled the waters of the Forbidden pond, looking for his Precious, and for that the penalty is death""... Primitives defile, water, water droplets, water pistol, precious, Takanohana, purse, in, one, floor, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 潰す(つぶす): smash, waste 潰れる(つぶれる): be smashed, go bankrupt Kunyomi: つぶ.す、つぶ.れる、つい.える Onyomi: カイ、エ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"defile 潰 画数15 1911 Details Story Dictionary 潰 defile Heisig's Water . . . precious. Koohii #1 Man continues to defile precious water and it may prove to be his downfall (Think of Exxon, BP, etc.). Koohii #2 ...Faramir and Frodo watched the tiny creature far below. ""Shall we shoot him?"" Faramir asked. ""This Gollum has defiled the waters of the Forbidden pond, looking for his Precious, and for that the penalty is death""... Primitives defile, water, water droplets, water pistol, precious, Takanohana, purse, in, one, floor, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 潰す(つぶす): smash, waste 潰れる(つぶれる): be smashed, go bankrupt Kunyomi: つぶ.す、つぶ.れる、つい.える Onyomi: カイ、エ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
dance / flutter Details Story Dictionary 舞 dance / flutter My Story [Nothing/without {無} + date (evening + fuck)] Because of your poor #dancing#, you remain *without* a *date* (an evening fuck). Be careful of {踊} Koohii #1 The yakuza boss reclines in the oaken bathtub wearing his shades while his personal harem dances naked for him. Koohii #2 I learned nothingness (#1775) first because it is a very common kanji. Probably easier to think of this kanji in that context. Attractive dancers should dance wearing nothing but sunglasses. Primitives dance, reclining, lying down, tub, sunglasses, dancing legs, ballerina, evening 仕舞(しまい): end, termination, informal (Noh play) 仕舞う(しまう): to finish, to close, to do something completely, to put away, to put an end to 舞う(まう): to dance, to flutter about, to revolve 見舞(みまい): enquiry, expression of sympathy, expression of concern 舞台(ぶたい): stage (theatre), scene or setting (e.g. of novel, play, etc.) 振舞う(ふるまう): behave, conduct oneself, entertain 見舞い(みまい): enquiry, expression of sympathy or concern 見舞う(みまう): ask after (health), visit お見舞い(おみまい): asking after (a person´s health) Kunyomi: ま.う、-ま.う、まい Onyomi: ブ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 舞い (ま.い), 舞う (ま.う)	dance / flutter 舞 画数15 1912 Details Story Dictionary 舞 dance / flutter My Story [Nothing/without {無} + date (evening + fuck)] Because of your poor #dancing#, you remain *without* a *date* (an evening fuck). Be careful of {踊} Koohii #1 The yakuza boss reclines in the oaken bathtub wearing his shades while his personal harem dances naked for him. Koohii #2 I learned nothingness (#1775) first because it is a very common kanji. Probably easier to think of this kanji in that context. Attractive dancers should dance wearing nothing but sunglasses. Primitives dance, reclining, lying down, tub, sunglasses, dancing legs, ballerina, evening 仕舞(しまい): end, termination, informal (Noh play) 仕舞う(しまう): to finish, to close, to do something completely, to put away, to put an end to 舞う(まう): to dance, to flutter about, to revolve 見舞(みまい): enquiry, expression of sympathy, expression of concern 舞台(ぶたい): stage (theatre), scene or setting (e.g. of novel, play, etc.) 振舞う(ふるまう): behave, conduct oneself, entertain 見舞い(みまい): enquiry, expression of sympathy or concern 見舞う(みまう): ask after (health), visit お見舞い(おみまい): asking after (a person´s health) Kunyomi: ま.う、-ま.う、まい Onyomi: ブ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 舞い (ま.い), 舞う (ま.う)
nothingness Details Story Dictionary 無 nothingness Heisig's This character is the Japanese character for the supreme philosophical principle of much Oriental thought: nothingness. Make use of the oaken tub from the previous frame, and add to that the oven fire at the bottom. Koohii #1 When I enter the wooden tub heated by flames in the onsen, I can let all my worries slip away and be submerged into nothingness. Koohii #2 In a hot tub you can relax and have your stress vanish into nothingness. Primitives nothingness, reclining, lying down, tub, oven-fire, barbecue 感無量(かんむりょう): deep feeling, inexpressible feeling, filled with emotion ご無沙汰(ごぶさた): not writing or contacting for a while 台無し(だいなし): mess, spoiled, (come to) nothing 無難(ぶなん): safety, security 無礼(ぶれい): impolite, rude 無意味(むいみ): nonsense, no meaning 無口(むくち): reticence 無効(むこう): invalid, no effect, unavailable 無言(むごん): silence 無邪気(むじゃき): innocence, simple-mindedness 無線(むせん): wireless, radio 無駄遣い(むだづかい): waste money on, squander money on, flog a dead horse 無断(むだん): without permission, without notice 無知(むち): ignorance 無茶(むちゃ): absurd, unreasonable, excessive, rash, absurdity, nonsense 無茶苦茶(むちゃくちゃ): confused, jumbled, mixed up, unreasonable 無念(むねん): chagrin, regret 無能(むのう): inefficiency, incompetence 無闇に(むやみに): unreasonably, absurdly, recklessly, indiscreetly, at random 無用(むよう): useless, futility, needlessness, unnecessariness 無論(むろん): of course, naturally 有無(うむ): yes or no, existence, presence or absence marker 無し(なし): without 無沙汰(ぶさた): neglecting to stay in contact 無事(ぶじ): safety, peace, quietness 無(む): nothing, nil, zero 無限(むげん): infinite 無視(むし): disregard, ignore 無地(むじ): plain, unfigured 無数(むすう): countless number, infinite number 無駄(むだ): futility, uselessness 無料(むりょう): free, no charge 無くす(なくす): lose 無くなる(なくなる): be lost 無理(むり): compulsion Kunyomi: な.い Onyomi: ム、ブ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: Compounds: 無名 (むめい), 無理 (むり), 皆無 (かいむ), 無い (な.い)	nothingness 無 画数12 1913 Details Story Dictionary 無 nothingness Heisig's This character is the Japanese character for the supreme philosophical principle of much Oriental thought: nothingness. Make use of the oaken tub from the previous frame, and add to that the oven fire at the bottom. Koohii #1 When I enter the wooden tub heated by flames in the onsen, I can let all my worries slip away and be submerged into nothingness. Koohii #2 In a hot tub you can relax and have your stress vanish into nothingness. Primitives nothingness, reclining, lying down, tub, oven-fire, barbecue 感無量(かんむりょう): deep feeling, inexpressible feeling, filled with emotion ご無沙汰(ごぶさた): not writing or contacting for a while 台無し(だいなし): mess, spoiled, (come to) nothing 無難(ぶなん): safety, security 無礼(ぶれい): impolite, rude 無意味(むいみ): nonsense, no meaning 無口(むくち): reticence 無効(むこう): invalid, no effect, unavailable 無言(むごん): silence 無邪気(むじゃき): innocence, simple-mindedness 無線(むせん): wireless, radio 無駄遣い(むだづかい): waste money on, squander money on, flog a dead horse 無断(むだん): without permission, without notice 無知(むち): ignorance 無茶(むちゃ): absurd, unreasonable, excessive, rash, absurdity, nonsense 無茶苦茶(むちゃくちゃ): confused, jumbled, mixed up, unreasonable 無念(むねん): chagrin, regret 無能(むのう): inefficiency, incompetence 無闇に(むやみに): unreasonably, absurdly, recklessly, indiscreetly, at random 無用(むよう): useless, futility, needlessness, unnecessariness 無論(むろん): of course, naturally 有無(うむ): yes or no, existence, presence or absence marker 無し(なし): without 無沙汰(ぶさた): neglecting to stay in contact 無事(ぶじ): safety, peace, quietness 無(む): nothing, nil, zero 無限(むげん): infinite 無視(むし): disregard, ignore 無地(むじ): plain, unfigured 無数(むすう): countless number, infinite number 無駄(むだ): futility, uselessness 無料(むりょう): free, no charge 無くす(なくす): lose 無くなる(なくなる): be lost 無理(むり): compulsion Kunyomi: な.い Onyomi: ム、ブ Lesson: 46 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: Compounds: 無名 (むめい), 無理 (むり), 皆無 (かいむ), 無い (な.い)
association Details Story Dictionary 組 association Heisig's Thread . . . shelf. Koohii #1 A common thread associates the knick-knacks on your knick-knack shelf. Souveneirs from Spain on one, from Japan on the other. Koohii #2 Watch this: http://i146.photobucket.com/albums/r249/sith_lord10/updated%20showroom%20july/s29.jpg The leader of the Spiderman association has tons of Spiderman figurines lined up on his shelf.(Zactacular). Primitives association, thread, spiderman, shelf, my bookshelves 組み合わせ(くみあわせ): combination 組み合わせる(くみあわせる): to join together, to combine, to join up 組み込む(くみこむ): to insert, to include, to cut in (printing) 仕組み(しくみ): devising, plan, plot, contrivance, construction, arrangement 取り組む(とりくむ): to tackle, to wrestle with, to engage in a bout, to come to grips with 組(くみ): class, group, team, set 組合(くみあい): association, union 組み立てる(くみたてる): assemble, set up, construct 組む(くむ): put together 組織(そしき): organization, structure, construction, tissue, system 番組(ばんぐみ): TV program Kunyomi: く.む、くみ、-ぐみ Onyomi: ソ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 組む (く.む), 組 (くみ)	association 組 画数11 1914 Details Story Dictionary 組 association Heisig's Thread . . . shelf. Koohii #1 A common thread associates the knick-knacks on your knick-knack shelf. Souveneirs from Spain on one, from Japan on the other. Koohii #2 Watch this: http://i146.photobucket.com/albums/r249/sith_lord10/updated%20showroom%20july/s29.jpg The leader of the Spiderman association has tons of Spiderman figurines lined up on his shelf.(Zactacular). Primitives association, thread, spiderman, shelf, my bookshelves 組み合わせ(くみあわせ): combination 組み合わせる(くみあわせる): to join together, to combine, to join up 組み込む(くみこむ): to insert, to include, to cut in (printing) 仕組み(しくみ): devising, plan, plot, contrivance, construction, arrangement 取り組む(とりくむ): to tackle, to wrestle with, to engage in a bout, to come to grips with 組(くみ): class, group, team, set 組合(くみあい): association, union 組み立てる(くみたてる): assemble, set up, construct 組む(くむ): put together 組織(そしき): organization, structure, construction, tissue, system 番組(ばんぐみ): TV program Kunyomi: く.む、くみ、-ぐみ Onyomi: ソ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 組む (く.む), 組 (くみ)
coarse Details Story Dictionary 粗 coarse Heisig's Rice . . . shelf. Koohii #1 Japanese carpenters don't use sandpaper, they use rice-paper(rice glued on to some paper). Here the carpenter is using the coarse paper to smooth out the shelf he's making. Koohii #2 Ugh, why does this shelf feel so coarse? Because it´s made of rice, of coarse! Get it? Of coarse?? Hahahahahahahahahah god i hate my life. Primitives coarse, rice, shelf, my bookshelves 粗筋(あらすじ): outline, summary 粗い(あらい): coarse, rough 粗末(そまつ): crude, rough, plain, humble Kunyomi: あら.い、あら- Onyomi: ソ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 粗い (あら.い)	coarse 粗 画数11 1915 Details Story Dictionary 粗 coarse Heisig's Rice . . . shelf. Koohii #1 Japanese carpenters don't use sandpaper, they use rice-paper(rice glued on to some paper). Here the carpenter is using the coarse paper to smooth out the shelf he's making. Koohii #2 Ugh, why does this shelf feel so coarse? Because it´s made of rice, of coarse! Get it? Of coarse?? Hahahahahahahahahah god i hate my life. Primitives coarse, rice, shelf, my bookshelves 粗筋(あらすじ): outline, summary 粗い(あらい): coarse, rough 粗末(そまつ): crude, rough, plain, humble Kunyomi: あら.い、あら- Onyomi: ソ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 粗い (あら.い)
tariff Details Story Dictionary 租 tariff Heisig's Wheat . . . shelf. Koohii #1 The EU and US impose such high tariffs on food imports that third world wheat (the most basic of staples) never reaches first world supermarket shelves. Koohii #2 According to Henshall, this kanji originally represented the harvested rice (the wheat primitive) that farmers paid as a tithe. Its meaning today would seem to be very similar. Imagine the farmer putting aside some of his harvested wheat on a shelf in order to pay the tariff to his lord. Primitives tariff, wheat, cereal, shelf, my bookshelves Kunyomi: Onyomi: ソ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	tariff 租 画数10 1916 Details Story Dictionary 租 tariff Heisig's Wheat . . . shelf. Koohii #1 The EU and US impose such high tariffs on food imports that third world wheat (the most basic of staples) never reaches first world supermarket shelves. Koohii #2 According to Henshall, this kanji originally represented the harvested rice (the wheat primitive) that farmers paid as a tithe. Its meaning today would seem to be very similar. Imagine the farmer putting aside some of his harvested wheat on a shelf in order to pay the tariff to his lord. Primitives tariff, wheat, cereal, shelf, my bookshelves Kunyomi: Onyomi: ソ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
aim at Details Story Dictionary 狙 aim at Heisig's Pack of wild dogs . . . shelf. Koohii #1 When her home was invaded by a pack of dogs, the little girl climbed on the shelf and aimed various items at the dogs below. Koohii #2 I think the dogs purposely aim at your shelves to deal the most damage. Primitives aim at, pack of wild dogs, shelf, my bookshelves 狙い(ねらい): aim 狙う(ねらう): to aim at Kunyomi: ねら.う、ねら.い Onyomi: ソ、ショ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 狙う (ねら.う)	aim at 狙 画数8 1917 Details Story Dictionary 狙 aim at Heisig's Pack of wild dogs . . . shelf. Koohii #1 When her home was invaded by a pack of dogs, the little girl climbed on the shelf and aimed various items at the dogs below. Koohii #2 I think the dogs purposely aim at your shelves to deal the most damage. Primitives aim at, pack of wild dogs, shelf, my bookshelves 狙い(ねらい): aim 狙う(ねらう): to aim at Kunyomi: ねら.う、ねら.い Onyomi: ソ、ショ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 狙う (ねら.う)
ancestor Details Story Dictionary 祖 ancestor My Story [ネkrophilia + Lincoln's Hat] My ancestor loved *ネ*ko's that wear *Abe Lincoln hats* Be careful of: Partner {相} Koohii #1 The ancestor worship is so common in Daoist and buddhist countries that you can buy tiny altars to put on the shelves, one for each deceased family member. Koohii #2 The urns of ancestors are kept on shelves next to the altar. Primitives ancestor, altar, shelf, my bookshelves お祖父さん(おじいさん): grandfather, male senior-citizen お祖母さん(おばあさん): grandmother, female senior-citizen 先祖(せんぞ): ancestor 祖先(そせん): ancestor 祖父(そふ): grand father 祖母(そぼ): grand mother Kunyomi: Onyomi: ソ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	ancestor 祖 画数9 1918 Details Story Dictionary 祖 ancestor My Story [ネkrophilia + Lincoln's Hat] My ancestor loved *ネ*ko's that wear *Abe Lincoln hats* Be careful of: Partner {相} Koohii #1 The ancestor worship is so common in Daoist and buddhist countries that you can buy tiny altars to put on the shelves, one for each deceased family member. Koohii #2 The urns of ancestors are kept on shelves next to the altar. Primitives ancestor, altar, shelf, my bookshelves お祖父さん(おじいさん): grandfather, male senior-citizen お祖母さん(おばあさん): grandmother, female senior-citizen 先祖(せんぞ): ancestor 祖先(そせん): ancestor 祖父(そふ): grand father 祖母(そぼ): grand mother Kunyomi: Onyomi: ソ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
thwart Details Story Dictionary 阻 thwart Heisig's Pinnacle . . . shelf. Koohii #1 Keeping porn on the pinnacle of a bookshelf can thwart snooping kids (thanks bodhisamaya). Koohii #2 The shortness of the Japanese thwarts their attempts to reach the topmost (pinnacle) shelf without grabbing a chair. Primitives thwart, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, shelf, my bookshelves 阻止(そし): obstruction, check, hindrance, prevention, interdiction 阻む(はばむ): to keep someone from doing, to stop, to prevent, to check, to hinder, to obstruct, to oppose, to thwart Kunyomi: はば.む Onyomi: ソ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 阻む (はば.む)	thwart 阻 画数8 1919 Details Story Dictionary 阻 thwart Heisig's Pinnacle . . . shelf. Koohii #1 Keeping porn on the pinnacle of a bookshelf can thwart snooping kids (thanks bodhisamaya). Koohii #2 The shortness of the Japanese thwarts their attempts to reach the topmost (pinnacle) shelf without grabbing a chair. Primitives thwart, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, shelf, my bookshelves 阻止(そし): obstruction, check, hindrance, prevention, interdiction 阻む(はばむ): to keep someone from doing, to stop, to prevent, to check, to hinder, to obstruct, to oppose, to thwart Kunyomi: はば.む Onyomi: ソ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 阻む (はば.む)
"investigate Details Story Dictionary 査 investigate Heisig's Tree . . . shelf. Koohii #1 Like the ""ero inquiry"" that had been partially swept under the rug (see inquire (#1145)), this kanji depicts the investigation into the forestry scandal being shelved. Koohii #2 The result of the inverstigation of the missing Trees? Why, most of them had become shelfs! Primitives investigate, tree, wood, shelf, my bookshelves 審査(しんさ): judging, inspection, examination, investigation 捜査(そうさ): search (esp. in criminal investigations), investigation 検査(けんさ): inspection (e.g. customs, factory), examination 巡査(じゅんさ): police, policeman 調査(ちょうさ): investigation, examination, inquiry, survey Kunyomi: Onyomi: サ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"investigate 査 画数9 1920 Details Story Dictionary 査 investigate Heisig's Tree . . . shelf. Koohii #1 Like the ""ero inquiry"" that had been partially swept under the rug (see inquire (#1145)), this kanji depicts the investigation into the forestry scandal being shelved. Koohii #2 The result of the inverstigation of the missing Trees? Why, most of them had become shelfs! Primitives investigate, tree, wood, shelf, my bookshelves 審査(しんさ): judging, inspection, examination, investigation 捜査(そうさ): search (esp. in criminal investigations), investigation 検査(けんさ): inspection (e.g. customs, factory), examination 巡査(じゅんさ): police, policeman 調査(ちょうさ): investigation, examination, inquiry, survey Kunyomi: Onyomi: サ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
help Details Story Dictionary 助 help My Story [Lincoln's hat + Strength] Use your *strength* to save *Abe's hat*!! That pervert's Jacking Off into it!!! Koohii #1 HELP! Someone´s pinned under this bookshelf and it´s gonna take a lot of muscle to lift it off! Koohii #2 Can you help me move this shelf? I don´t have the muscle to do it alone. Primitives help, shelf, my bookshelves, power, muscle, arnold 助(じょ): help, rescue, assistant 助言(じょげん): advice, suggestion 助詞(じょし): particle, postposition 助動詞(じょどうし): auxiliary verb 助け(たすけ): assistance 補助(ほじょ): assistance, support, aid, auxiliary 援助(えんじょ): assistance, aid, support 救助(きゅうじょ): relief, aid, rescue 助教授(じょきょうじゅ): assistant professor 助手(じょしゅ): helper, assistant, tutor 助かる(たすかる): be saved, be rescued, survive, be helpful 助ける(たすける): help, save, rescue, give relief to, reinforce, promote, abet Kunyomi: たす.ける、たす.かる、す.ける、すけ Onyomi: ジョ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 助 (すけ), 助かる (たす.かる), 助ける (たす.ける)	help 助 画数7 1921 Details Story Dictionary 助 help My Story [Lincoln's hat + Strength] Use your *strength* to save *Abe's hat*!! That pervert's Jacking Off into it!!! Koohii #1 HELP! Someone´s pinned under this bookshelf and it´s gonna take a lot of muscle to lift it off! Koohii #2 Can you help me move this shelf? I don´t have the muscle to do it alone. Primitives help, shelf, my bookshelves, power, muscle, arnold 助(じょ): help, rescue, assistant 助言(じょげん): advice, suggestion 助詞(じょし): particle, postposition 助動詞(じょどうし): auxiliary verb 助け(たすけ): assistance 補助(ほじょ): assistance, support, aid, auxiliary 援助(えんじょ): assistance, aid, support 救助(きゅうじょ): relief, aid, rescue 助教授(じょきょうじゅ): assistant professor 助手(じょしゅ): helper, assistant, tutor 助かる(たすかる): be saved, be rescued, survive, be helpful 助ける(たすける): help, save, rescue, give relief to, reinforce, promote, abet Kunyomi: たす.ける、たす.かる、す.ける、すけ Onyomi: ジョ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 助 (すけ), 助かる (たす.かる), 助ける (たす.ける)
best regards Details Story Dictionary 宜 best regards Heisig's This kanji, a polite way of expressing one's best regards to another. Its elements: house . . . shelf. Koohii #1 It seems like every time my Japanese friends send me their best regards, they accompany them with a gift. Over time, I´ve gotten so many that I had to buy a second house which contains nothing but several fancy shelves. Each shelf is dedicated to a certain friend of mine and contains every last one of their presents. Koohii #2 We have a shelf in our house where we put Christmas cards from people who send best regards for the holiday season...　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ギ　便宜主義　べんぎしゅぎ(opportunism). Primitives best regards, house, shelf, my bookshelves 適宜(てきぎ): suitability どうぞ宜しく(どうぞよろしく): pleased to meet you 便宜(べんぎ): convenience, accommodation, advantage, expedience 宜しく(よろしく): well, properly, suitably, best regards, please remember me 宜しい(よろしい): good Kunyomi: よろ.しい、よろ.しく Onyomi: ギ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	best regards 宜 画数8 1922 Details Story Dictionary 宜 best regards Heisig's This kanji, a polite way of expressing one's best regards to another. Its elements: house . . . shelf. Koohii #1 It seems like every time my Japanese friends send me their best regards, they accompany them with a gift. Over time, I´ve gotten so many that I had to buy a second house which contains nothing but several fancy shelves. Each shelf is dedicated to a certain friend of mine and contains every last one of their presents. Koohii #2 We have a shelf in our house where we put Christmas cards from people who send best regards for the holiday season...　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ギ　便宜主義　べんぎしゅぎ(opportunism). Primitives best regards, house, shelf, my bookshelves 適宜(てきぎ): suitability どうぞ宜しく(どうぞよろしく): pleased to meet you 便宜(べんぎ): convenience, accommodation, advantage, expedience 宜しく(よろしく): well, properly, suitably, best regards, please remember me 宜しい(よろしい): good Kunyomi: よろ.しい、よろ.しく Onyomi: ギ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
tatami mat Details Story Dictionary 畳 tatami mat Heisig's Rice field . . . crown . . . shelf. Koohii #1 The king is peacefully sleeping on his new tatami mat when all of a sudden a shelf falls over and kills him. You can see his crown poking out and the brains splatter out the top of his head from all the pressure. Koohii #2 Making tatami mats from rice field waste was Japan´s crowning achievement, but for some reason other countries just shelved the idea. Primitives tatami mat, rice field, brains, crown, shelf, my bookshelves 畳(じょう): counter for tatami mats, measure of room size (in mat units) 畳む(たたむ): fold (clothes) 畳(たたみ): tatami mat Kunyomi: たた.む、たたみ、かさ.なる Onyomi: ジョウ、チョウ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 畳む (たた.む), 畳 (たたみ)	tatami mat 畳 画数12 1923 Details Story Dictionary 畳 tatami mat Heisig's Rice field . . . crown . . . shelf. Koohii #1 The king is peacefully sleeping on his new tatami mat when all of a sudden a shelf falls over and kills him. You can see his crown poking out and the brains splatter out the top of his head from all the pressure. Koohii #2 Making tatami mats from rice field waste was Japan´s crowning achievement, but for some reason other countries just shelved the idea. Primitives tatami mat, rice field, brains, crown, shelf, my bookshelves 畳(じょう): counter for tatami mats, measure of room size (in mat units) 畳む(たたむ): fold (clothes) 畳(たたみ): tatami mat Kunyomi: たた.む、たたみ、かさ.なる Onyomi: ジョウ、チョウ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 畳む (たた.む), 畳 (たたみ)
"row Details Story Dictionary 並 row My Story The Row-man numeral II with two rows of *animal horns*. * The primitive meaning remains the same as that of the kanji, but special attention has to be given to the varieties of shape this element can undergo. It is the most difficult one you will meet in this book. When it appears BENEATH its relative primitive, the top three strokes are omitted, though the third horizontal stroke may be doubled up with the bottom horizontal stroke of the element above it. ATOP its relative primitive, it can keep its kanji shape. When it does not, the top three strokes are removed and all of them are replaced BELOW the primitive's bottom line. We shall acknowledge this latter transformation by changing its meaning to upside down in a row. Koohii #1 This is a simplification of 竝, a ideogram of two people standing in a row. Koohii #2 Hint : as a primitive I use the image of a rowing boat. In a rowing boat people sit in rows, but also side-by-side (another meaning of the kanji), working together (yet another meaning of this kanji). Note : there will also be a kanji for ""rowboat"" coming at frame 1876. The rowing boat is associated with the sport, and is a primitive, while the kanji for ""rowboat"" has a generic meaning of ""a small boat"". In any case, the kanji for ""rowboat"" will not appear as a primitive in the book. Primitives row 月並み(つきなみ): every month, common 並み(なみ): average, medium, common, ordinary 並びに(ならびに): and 軒並み(のきなみ): row of houses 並列(へいれつ): arrangement, parallel, abreast 並木(なみき): roadside tree, row of trees 並行(へいこう): (going) side by side, concurrent, abreast, at the same time, occurring together, parallel, parallelism 並ぶ(ならぶ): line up, stand in a line 並べる(ならべる): line up, set up Kunyomi: な.み、なら.べる、なら.ぶ、なら.びに Onyomi: ヘイ、ホウ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 並 (なみ), 並びに (なら.びに), 並ぶ (なら.ぶ), 並べる (なら.べる)"	"row 並 画数8 1924 Details Story Dictionary 並 row My Story The Row-man numeral II with two rows of *animal horns*. * The primitive meaning remains the same as that of the kanji, but special attention has to be given to the varieties of shape this element can undergo. It is the most difficult one you will meet in this book. When it appears BENEATH its relative primitive, the top three strokes are omitted, though the third horizontal stroke may be doubled up with the bottom horizontal stroke of the element above it. ATOP its relative primitive, it can keep its kanji shape. When it does not, the top three strokes are removed and all of them are replaced BELOW the primitive's bottom line. We shall acknowledge this latter transformation by changing its meaning to upside down in a row. Koohii #1 This is a simplification of 竝, a ideogram of two people standing in a row. Koohii #2 Hint : as a primitive I use the image of a rowing boat. In a rowing boat people sit in rows, but also side-by-side (another meaning of the kanji), working together (yet another meaning of this kanji). Note : there will also be a kanji for ""rowboat"" coming at frame 1876. The rowing boat is associated with the sport, and is a primitive, while the kanji for ""rowboat"" has a generic meaning of ""a small boat"". In any case, the kanji for ""rowboat"" will not appear as a primitive in the book. Primitives row 月並み(つきなみ): every month, common 並み(なみ): average, medium, common, ordinary 並びに(ならびに): and 軒並み(のきなみ): row of houses 並列(へいれつ): arrangement, parallel, abreast 並木(なみき): roadside tree, row of trees 並行(へいこう): (going) side by side, concurrent, abreast, at the same time, occurring together, parallel, parallelism 並ぶ(ならぶ): line up, stand in a line 並べる(ならべる): line up, set up Kunyomi: な.み、なら.べる、なら.ぶ、なら.びに Onyomi: ヘイ、ホウ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 並 (なみ), 並びに (なら.びに), 並ぶ (なら.ぶ), 並べる (なら.べる)"
universal Details Story Dictionary 普 universal Heisig's Row . . . sun. Koohii #1 A row of suns is actually a normal, plain, and ordinary occurrence in an infinitely large and expanding universe. FUtsuu. Koohii #2 To me, row is way too close to file (#812), so I´m adopting Fab´s meaning of rowboat from the previous frame. Universal Studios went through a number of logo animations before settling on the one they are most famous for: the letters UNIVERSAL orbiting the Earth. One of the most ridiculous of these involved a man rowing himself in a boat around the sun. Primitives universal, row, sun, day 普遍(ふへん): universality, ubiquity, omnipresence 普及(ふきゅう): diffusion, spread 普段(ふだん): usually, habitually, ordinarily, always 普通(ふつう): normally, usually Kunyomi: あまね.く、あまねし Onyomi: フ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	universal 普 画数12 1925 Details Story Dictionary 普 universal Heisig's Row . . . sun. Koohii #1 A row of suns is actually a normal, plain, and ordinary occurrence in an infinitely large and expanding universe. FUtsuu. Koohii #2 To me, row is way too close to file (#812), so I´m adopting Fab´s meaning of rowboat from the previous frame. Universal Studios went through a number of logo animations before settling on the one they are most famous for: the letters UNIVERSAL orbiting the Earth. One of the most ridiculous of these involved a man rowing himself in a boat around the sun. Primitives universal, row, sun, day 普遍(ふへん): universality, ubiquity, omnipresence 普及(ふきゅう): diffusion, spread 普段(ふだん): usually, habitually, ordinarily, always 普通(ふつう): normally, usually Kunyomi: あまね.く、あまねし Onyomi: フ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
musical score Details Story Dictionary 譜 musical score Heisig's Words . . . universal. Koohii #1 Musical scores are in a universal language. Koohii #2 A musical score can be read, but not like ordinary words. Music is a universal language. Primitives musical score, say, words, keitai, mouth, universal, row, sun, day 楽譜(がくふ): score (music) Kunyomi: Onyomi: フ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	musical score 譜 画数19 1926 Details Story Dictionary 譜 musical score Heisig's Words . . . universal. Koohii #1 Musical scores are in a universal language. Koohii #2 A musical score can be read, but not like ordinary words. Music is a universal language. Primitives musical score, say, words, keitai, mouth, universal, row, sun, day 楽譜(がくふ): score (music) Kunyomi: Onyomi: フ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
damp Details Story Dictionary 湿 damp Heisig's Water . . . sun . . . row. Koohii #1 You first wash you clothes with water and wring them until they are just damp before hanging them in a row under the sun to dry. If you don´t wring them damp first they will take days to dry! Koohii #2 If your things are damp, lay them up in a row under the sun and let the water evaporate. (thx Raichu)...　RTK2:　シツ　湿気　しっけ(humidity). Primitives damp, water, water droplets, water pistol, sun, day, row 湿気る(しける): to be damp, to be moist 湿気(しっき): moisture, humidity, dampness 湿度(しつど): level of humidity 湿る(しめる): be wet, become wet, be damp Kunyomi: しめ.る、しめ.す、うるお.う、うるお.す Onyomi: シツ、シュウ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 湿す (しめ.す), 湿る (しめ.る)	damp 湿 画数12 1927 Details Story Dictionary 湿 damp Heisig's Water . . . sun . . . row. Koohii #1 You first wash you clothes with water and wring them until they are just damp before hanging them in a row under the sun to dry. If you don´t wring them damp first they will take days to dry! Koohii #2 If your things are damp, lay them up in a row under the sun and let the water evaporate. (thx Raichu)...　RTK2:　シツ　湿気　しっけ(humidity). Primitives damp, water, water droplets, water pistol, sun, day, row 湿気る(しける): to be damp, to be moist 湿気(しっき): moisture, humidity, dampness 湿度(しつど): level of humidity 湿る(しめる): be wet, become wet, be damp Kunyomi: しめ.る、しめ.す、うるお.う、うるお.す Onyomi: シツ、シュウ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 湿す (しめ.す), 湿る (しめ.る)
appear Details Story Dictionary 顕 appear Heisig's Sun . . . row . . . heads. Koohii #1 Somebody's head appears from behind the laundry in a row drying under the sun Koohii #2 Clouds were covering the sky for months now. Rows upon rows of people spent whole days with their heads turned upwards, waiting for sun to appear. Primitives appear, sun, day, row, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 顕微鏡(けんびきょう): microscope Kunyomi: あきらか、あらわ.れる Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	appear 顕 画数18 1928 Details Story Dictionary 顕 appear Heisig's Sun . . . row . . . heads. Koohii #1 Somebody's head appears from behind the laundry in a row drying under the sun Koohii #2 Clouds were covering the sky for months now. Rows upon rows of people spent whole days with their heads turned upwards, waiting for sun to appear. Primitives appear, sun, day, row, head, page, one, ceiling, drop, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 顕微鏡(けんびきょう): microscope Kunyomi: あきらか、あらわ.れる Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
slender Details Story Dictionary 繊 slender Heisig's Thread . . . Thanksgiving . . . row. Koohii #1 At the end of Thanksgiving it's tradition for everyone to stand in a row and measure their waist with a strip of thread. Whoever is the most slender wins the leftovers. Koohii #2 At the time of Thanksgiving, there´s a row of all sorts of food on the table, which you mustn´t eat if you want to stay as slender as a thread. Primitives slender, thread, spiderman, Thanksgiving, harvest festival, ten, needle, fiesta, row 化繊(かせん): synthetic fibres 繊維(せんい): fibre, fiber, textile Kunyomi: Onyomi: セン Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	slender 繊 画数17 1929 Details Story Dictionary 繊 slender Heisig's Thread . . . Thanksgiving . . . row. Koohii #1 At the end of Thanksgiving it's tradition for everyone to stand in a row and measure their waist with a strip of thread. Whoever is the most slender wins the leftovers. Koohii #2 At the time of Thanksgiving, there´s a row of all sorts of food on the table, which you mustn´t eat if you want to stay as slender as a thread. Primitives slender, thread, spiderman, Thanksgiving, harvest festival, ten, needle, fiesta, row 化繊(かせん): synthetic fibres 繊維(せんい): fibre, fiber, textile Kunyomi: Onyomi: セン Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"spirits Details Story Dictionary 霊 spirits Heisig's Rain . . . two . . . row. This character will refer only to the inhabitants of the ""spirit world,"" and not to moods or temperaments, for which we will learn another character in frame 2030. Koohii #1 After raining for two days in a row, you plead with the SPIRITS for some relief. (Adapted from johnskb,21-5-2006). Koohii #2 When it rains, two worlds come together and spirits can be seen in the forest, dancing in a row. Primitives spirits, rain, weather, two, row 幽霊(ゆうれい): ghost, specter, apparition, phantom Kunyomi: たま Onyomi: レイ、リョウ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 霊感 (れいかん), 霊魂 (れいこん), 霊長類 (れいちょうるい), 霊 (たま)"	"spirits 霊 画数15 1930 Details Story Dictionary 霊 spirits Heisig's Rain . . . two . . . row. This character will refer only to the inhabitants of the ""spirit world,"" and not to moods or temperaments, for which we will learn another character in frame 2030. Koohii #1 After raining for two days in a row, you plead with the SPIRITS for some relief. (Adapted from johnskb,21-5-2006). Koohii #2 When it rains, two worlds come together and spirits can be seen in the forest, dancing in a row. Primitives spirits, rain, weather, two, row 幽霊(ゆうれい): ghost, specter, apparition, phantom Kunyomi: たま Onyomi: レイ、リョウ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 霊感 (れいかん), 霊魂 (れいこん), 霊長類 (れいちょうるい), 霊 (たま)"
profession Details Story Dictionary 業 profession Heisig's In a row upside down . . . not yet. Koohii #1 The oldest profession: prostitution. I was once in a brothel in Amsterdam where the working girls had a group of businessmen blindfolded and hanging upside down in a row, not yet spanked and whipped, but waiting eagerly. Koohii #2 A bunch of kids are hanging upside down in a row on the monkeybars. Naturally, they haven't chosen a profession, at least not yet. Primitives business, profession, upside down in a row, not yet, tree, wood 業者(ぎょうしゃ): trader, merchant 業績(ぎょうせき): achievement, performance, results, work, contribution 業務(ぎょうむ): business, affairs, duties, work 兼業(けんぎょう): side line, second business 業(ごう): Buddhist karma, actions committed in a former life 興業(こうぎょう): industrial enterprise 鉱業(こうぎょう): mining industry 事業(じぎょう): project, enterprise, business, industry, operations 実業家(じつぎょうか): industrialist, businessman 就業(しゅうぎょう): employment, starting work 従業員(じゅうぎょういん): employee, worker 分業(ぶんぎょう): division of labor, specialization, assembly-line production 林業(りんぎょう): forestry 営業(えいぎょう): business, trade, sales, operations 企業(きぎょう): enterprise, undertaking 休業(きゅうぎょう): closed (e.g. store), business suspended, shutdown, holiday 漁業(ぎょぎょう): fishing (industry) 作業(さぎょう): work, operation, manufacturing, fatigue duty 産業(さんぎょう): industry 失業(しつぎょう): unemployment 商業(しょうぎょう): commerce, trade, business 職業(しょくぎょう): occupation, business 農業(のうぎょう): agriculture 工業(こうぎょう): industry 卒業(そつぎょう): graduate 授業(じゅぎょう): lesson, class work Kunyomi: わざ Onyomi: ギョウ、ゴウ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 業績 (ぎょうせき), 職業 (しょくぎょう), 卒業 (そつぎょう), 業 (わざ)	profession 業 画数13 1931 Details Story Dictionary 業 profession Heisig's In a row upside down . . . not yet. Koohii #1 The oldest profession: prostitution. I was once in a brothel in Amsterdam where the working girls had a group of businessmen blindfolded and hanging upside down in a row, not yet spanked and whipped, but waiting eagerly. Koohii #2 A bunch of kids are hanging upside down in a row on the monkeybars. Naturally, they haven't chosen a profession, at least not yet. Primitives business, profession, upside down in a row, not yet, tree, wood 業者(ぎょうしゃ): trader, merchant 業績(ぎょうせき): achievement, performance, results, work, contribution 業務(ぎょうむ): business, affairs, duties, work 兼業(けんぎょう): side line, second business 業(ごう): Buddhist karma, actions committed in a former life 興業(こうぎょう): industrial enterprise 鉱業(こうぎょう): mining industry 事業(じぎょう): project, enterprise, business, industry, operations 実業家(じつぎょうか): industrialist, businessman 就業(しゅうぎょう): employment, starting work 従業員(じゅうぎょういん): employee, worker 分業(ぶんぎょう): division of labor, specialization, assembly-line production 林業(りんぎょう): forestry 営業(えいぎょう): business, trade, sales, operations 企業(きぎょう): enterprise, undertaking 休業(きゅうぎょう): closed (e.g. store), business suspended, shutdown, holiday 漁業(ぎょぎょう): fishing (industry) 作業(さぎょう): work, operation, manufacturing, fatigue duty 産業(さんぎょう): industry 失業(しつぎょう): unemployment 商業(しょうぎょう): commerce, trade, business 職業(しょくぎょう): occupation, business 農業(のうぎょう): agriculture 工業(こうぎょう): industry 卒業(そつぎょう): graduate 授業(じゅぎょう): lesson, class work Kunyomi: わざ Onyomi: ギョウ、ゴウ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 業績 (ぎょうせき), 職業 (しょくぎょう), 卒業 (そつぎょう), 業 (わざ)
slap Details Story Dictionary 撲 slap Heisig's Fingers . . . upside down in a row . . . husbands. Koohii #1 After a row husbands take their wives upsides down over the knee and slap them with their fingers on the bottom (if that doesn´t get me banned…). Koohii #2 Here we have badly behaving HUSBANDs, whose wives have had them hung UPSIDE DOWN IN A ROW. Each wife approaches her HUSBAND, berates him, gives him a sharp SLAP in the face and, Three-Stooges style, pokes him in the eyes with her FINGERS. Primitives slap, finger, fingers, upside down in a row, husband 相撲(すもう): sumo wrestling Kunyomi: Onyomi: ボク Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	slap 撲 画数15 1932 Details Story Dictionary 撲 slap Heisig's Fingers . . . upside down in a row . . . husbands. Koohii #1 After a row husbands take their wives upsides down over the knee and slap them with their fingers on the bottom (if that doesn´t get me banned…). Koohii #2 Here we have badly behaving HUSBANDs, whose wives have had them hung UPSIDE DOWN IN A ROW. Each wife approaches her HUSBAND, berates him, gives him a sharp SLAP in the face and, Three-Stooges style, pokes him in the eyes with her FINGERS. Primitives slap, finger, fingers, upside down in a row, husband 相撲(すもう): sumo wrestling Kunyomi: Onyomi: ボク Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"me Details Story Dictionary 僕 me My Story [Person + Hedgehog + Horny King + legs] I am a *person* who likes *hedgehogs* and the *2 legged* *horny king* Koohii #1 Mr. T also finds himself as one of the HUSBANDs, whose wives have had them hung UPSIDE DOWN IN A ROW. But when his wife comes up to punish him, he pleads, “It’s ME, Baby. I wasn’t behaving badly like these other foo’s.”. Koohii #2 Building on johnskb: Although it goes against the Heisig method, this story is a lot easier to remember when you know it´s the kanji for ""boku."" Males usually use either ""boku"" or ""ore"" (instead of ""watashi"") to refer themselves. ""Boku"" is slightly boyish and soft; ""ore"" is rough & tough. Mr. T would definitely use ""ore"" -- but when he´s one of the husbands hung upside down in a row about to be punished by his wife, he puts on a sweet act and switches to ""boku"" when he pleads ""come on baby, it´s ME!"". Primitives me, person, upside down in a row, husband 僕(しもべ): manservant, servant (of God) 僕(ぼく): I (used by men with close acquaintances) Kunyomi: しもべ Onyomi: ボク Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"me 僕 画数14 1933 Details Story Dictionary 僕 me My Story [Person + Hedgehog + Horny King + legs] I am a *person* who likes *hedgehogs* and the *2 legged* *horny king* Koohii #1 Mr. T also finds himself as one of the HUSBANDs, whose wives have had them hung UPSIDE DOWN IN A ROW. But when his wife comes up to punish him, he pleads, “It’s ME, Baby. I wasn’t behaving badly like these other foo’s.”. Koohii #2 Building on johnskb: Although it goes against the Heisig method, this story is a lot easier to remember when you know it´s the kanji for ""boku."" Males usually use either ""boku"" or ""ore"" (instead of ""watashi"") to refer themselves. ""Boku"" is slightly boyish and soft; ""ore"" is rough & tough. Mr. T would definitely use ""ore"" -- but when he´s one of the husbands hung upside down in a row about to be punished by his wife, he puts on a sweet act and switches to ""boku"" when he pleads ""come on baby, it´s ME!"". Primitives me, person, upside down in a row, husband 僕(しもべ): manservant, servant (of God) 僕(ぼく): I (used by men with close acquaintances) Kunyomi: しもべ Onyomi: ボク Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
together Details Story Dictionary 共 together My Story A fence with 2 legs that are together is moving on legs! WTF * The primitive retains the meaning of together. Imagine things strung together like fish on a line, beads on a thread, or whatever. The main thing is to avoid putting them in a straight row, which would confound this element with the previous one. As we saw with bushel basket, this primitive can join its legs to the final horizontal stroke and stretch them to form an enclosure. Koohii #1 The character for deluge (#1799) gave me the idea to use together as a primitive for Noah´s Ark. Noah kept plenty of salad on board to entice the animals with their animal legs to scurry on board together, two by two. Koohii #2 The conjoined twins, who are always together, have trouble eating together because one is a vegetarian, eating salad and the other is a avid meat eater, eating chicken legs.[Thanks fuaburisu!]. Primitives together, salad, animal legs, eight 共(きょう): both, neither (neg), all, and, as well as, including, with, together with, plural ending 共学(きょうがく): coeducation 共感(きょうかん): sympathy, response 共存(きょうそん): coexistence 共鳴(きょうめい): resonance, sympathy 共和(きょうわ): republicanism, cooperation 共稼ぎ(ともかせぎ): working together, (husband and wife) earning a living together 共働き(ともばたらき): dual income 共産(きょうさん): communism 共通(きょうつう): commonness, community 共同(きょうどう): cooperation, association, collaboration, joint 公共(こうきょう): public, community, public service, society, communal 共に(ともに): sharing with, participate in, both, alike, together, along with, with, including Kunyomi: とも、とも.に、-ども Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 共 (とも)	together 共 画数6 1934 Details Story Dictionary 共 together My Story A fence with 2 legs that are together is moving on legs! WTF * The primitive retains the meaning of together. Imagine things strung together like fish on a line, beads on a thread, or whatever. The main thing is to avoid putting them in a straight row, which would confound this element with the previous one. As we saw with bushel basket, this primitive can join its legs to the final horizontal stroke and stretch them to form an enclosure. Koohii #1 The character for deluge (#1799) gave me the idea to use together as a primitive for Noah´s Ark. Noah kept plenty of salad on board to entice the animals with their animal legs to scurry on board together, two by two. Koohii #2 The conjoined twins, who are always together, have trouble eating together because one is a vegetarian, eating salad and the other is a avid meat eater, eating chicken legs.[Thanks fuaburisu!]. Primitives together, salad, animal legs, eight 共(きょう): both, neither (neg), all, and, as well as, including, with, together with, plural ending 共学(きょうがく): coeducation 共感(きょうかん): sympathy, response 共存(きょうそん): coexistence 共鳴(きょうめい): resonance, sympathy 共和(きょうわ): republicanism, cooperation 共稼ぎ(ともかせぎ): working together, (husband and wife) earning a living together 共働き(ともばたらき): dual income 共産(きょうさん): communism 共通(きょうつう): commonness, community 共同(きょうどう): cooperation, association, collaboration, joint 公共(こうきょう): public, community, public service, society, communal 共に(ともに): sharing with, participate in, both, alike, together, along with, with, including Kunyomi: とも、とも.に、-ども Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 共 (とも)
submit Details Story Dictionary 供 submit Heisig's Submit here is a transitive verb, meaning to offer or present. Its elements: person . . . strung together. Koohii #1 You have to SUBMIT all required documents together, in person! Koohii #2 When people are together and form a group, they suddenly submit their personal responsibility to the mob mentality. Primitives submit, person, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight お供(おとも): attendant, companion 供(きょう): offer, present, submit, serve (a meal), supply 提供(ていきょう): offer, tender, program sponsoring, furnishing 供給(きょうきゅう): supply, provisions 子供(こども): child, children Kunyomi: そな.える、とも、-ども Onyomi: キョウ、ク、クウ、グ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 供給 (きょうきゅう), 提供 (ていきょう), 自供 (じきょう), 供える (そな.える), 供 (とも)	submit 供 画数8 1935 Details Story Dictionary 供 submit Heisig's Submit here is a transitive verb, meaning to offer or present. Its elements: person . . . strung together. Koohii #1 You have to SUBMIT all required documents together, in person! Koohii #2 When people are together and form a group, they suddenly submit their personal responsibility to the mob mentality. Primitives submit, person, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight お供(おとも): attendant, companion 供(きょう): offer, present, submit, serve (a meal), supply 提供(ていきょう): offer, tender, program sponsoring, furnishing 供給(きょうきゅう): supply, provisions 子供(こども): child, children Kunyomi: そな.える、とも、-ども Onyomi: キョウ、ク、クウ、グ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 供給 (きょうきゅう), 提供 (ていきょう), 自供 (じきょう), 供える (そな.える), 供 (とも)
uncommon Details Story Dictionary 異 uncommon Heisig's Brains . . . together. Koohii #1 Brains together with beauty is an uncommon combination. Koohii #2 It´s uncommon to find a pair of together twins who are connected at the brain! When such a set does turn up, they are inevitably showcased on TV. Primitives uncommon, rice field, brains, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight 異議(いぎ): objection, dissent, protest 異見(いけん): different opinion, objection 異性(いせい): the opposite sex 異動(いどう): a change 異論(いろん): different opinion, objection 驚異(きょうい): wonder, miracle 差異(さい): difference, disparity 異常(いじょう): strangeness, abnormality, disorder 異なる(ことなる): differ, vary, disagree Kunyomi: こと、こと.なる、け Onyomi: イ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 異 (こと)	uncommon 異 画数11 1936 Details Story Dictionary 異 uncommon Heisig's Brains . . . together. Koohii #1 Brains together with beauty is an uncommon combination. Koohii #2 It´s uncommon to find a pair of together twins who are connected at the brain! When such a set does turn up, they are inevitably showcased on TV. Primitives uncommon, rice field, brains, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight 異議(いぎ): objection, dissent, protest 異見(いけん): different opinion, objection 異性(いせい): the opposite sex 異動(いどう): a change 異論(いろん): different opinion, objection 驚異(きょうい): wonder, miracle 差異(さい): difference, disparity 異常(いじょう): strangeness, abnormality, disorder 異なる(ことなる): differ, vary, disagree Kunyomi: こと、こと.なる、け Onyomi: イ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 異 (こと)
wing Details Story Dictionary 翼 wing Heisig's Feathers . . . uncommon. Koohii #1 The thing about feathers is that they usually cover the entire bird. A creature with feathers only on its wings would be very uncommon. Koohii #2 WINGS without any FEATHERS would be an UNCOMMON site. Well, unless you like to eat chicken WINGS alot. Primitives wing, feathers, wings, uncommon, rice field, brains, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight 翼(つばさ): wing Kunyomi: つばさ Onyomi: ヨク Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 翼 (つばさ)	wing 翼 画数17 1937 Details Story Dictionary 翼 wing Heisig's Feathers . . . uncommon. Koohii #1 The thing about feathers is that they usually cover the entire bird. A creature with feathers only on its wings would be very uncommon. Koohii #2 WINGS without any FEATHERS would be an UNCOMMON site. Well, unless you like to eat chicken WINGS alot. Primitives wing, feathers, wings, uncommon, rice field, brains, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight 翼(つばさ): wing Kunyomi: つばさ Onyomi: ヨク Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 翼 (つばさ)
accept humbly Details Story Dictionary 戴 accept humbly Heisig's Thanksgiving . . . uncommon. Koohii #1 At Thanksgiving, it’s uncommon for people to accept humbly the food: most people just dig in. Koohii #2 You´re invited to a Thanksgiving party in Japan! Awesome! You´re so happy that your Japanese friends are trying to make you feel at home (you´ve been homesick recently). You sit down to the table, and they bring out some..uh...uncommon food. Really uncommon. Like just imagine the most uncommon Thanksgiving food ever, and that´s what you´re given (i don´t know, a frisbee or something?). Of course, you have to be Japanese and accept humbly their food. Primitives accept humbly, Thanksgiving, harvest festival, ten, needle, fiesta, uncommon, rice field, brains, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: いただ.く Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	accept humbly 戴 画数17 1938 Details Story Dictionary 戴 accept humbly Heisig's Thanksgiving . . . uncommon. Koohii #1 At Thanksgiving, it’s uncommon for people to accept humbly the food: most people just dig in. Koohii #2 You´re invited to a Thanksgiving party in Japan! Awesome! You´re so happy that your Japanese friends are trying to make you feel at home (you´ve been homesick recently). You sit down to the table, and they bring out some..uh...uncommon food. Really uncommon. Like just imagine the most uncommon Thanksgiving food ever, and that´s what you´re given (i don´t know, a frisbee or something?). Of course, you have to be Japanese and accept humbly their food. Primitives accept humbly, Thanksgiving, harvest festival, ten, needle, fiesta, uncommon, rice field, brains, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: いただ.く Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
deluge Details Story Dictionary 洪 deluge My Story Water + Together = damp A Deluge is when so much *Water* is *Together* it creates a flood. Koohii #1 Lots of water coming together is called a deluge. Koohii #2 A real deluge of water, as if all water worked together, as if strung together haphazardly. Primitives deluge, water, water droplets, water pistol, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight 洪水(こうずい): flood Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	deluge 洪 画数9 1939 Details Story Dictionary 洪 deluge My Story Water + Together = damp A Deluge is when so much *Water* is *Together* it creates a flood. Koohii #1 Lots of water coming together is called a deluge. Koohii #2 A real deluge of water, as if all water worked together, as if strung together haphazardly. Primitives deluge, water, water droplets, water pistol, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight 洪水(こうずい): flood Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
harbor Details Story Dictionary 港 harbor My Story During a *deluge* {洪}, all the poor *snakes* get washed into the harbor. Koohii #1 During a deluge, all the poor snakes get washed into the harbour. Koohii #2 All throughout the deluge Noah had been kicking himself for forgetting to bring any snakes onto the Ark. It wasn´t until the deluge had finished, and Noah had brought the Ark safely back to the harbour that he realised that the snakes had been under the Ark all along. Primitives harbor, deluge, water, water droplets, water pistol, scene, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight, snake, self 空港(くうこう): air port 港(みなと): seaport, harbor Kunyomi: みなと Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 港 (みなと)	harbor 港 画数12 1940 Details Story Dictionary 港 harbor My Story During a *deluge* {洪}, all the poor *snakes* get washed into the harbor. Koohii #1 During a deluge, all the poor snakes get washed into the harbour. Koohii #2 All throughout the deluge Noah had been kicking himself for forgetting to bring any snakes onto the Ark. It wasn´t until the deluge had finished, and Noah had brought the Ark safely back to the harbour that he realised that the snakes had been under the Ark all along. Primitives harbor, deluge, water, water droplets, water pistol, scene, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight, snake, self 空港(くうこう): air port 港(みなと): seaport, harbor Kunyomi: みなと Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 港 (みなと)
"outburst Details Story Dictionary 暴 outburst Heisig's Sun . . . strung together . . . rice grains. Koohii #1 If you think of it as of outburst of an atomic bomb (which will also prove useful in the next frame), then imagining thousands of suns blasting in one single outburst of rage and turning people into rice grains is not that hard. Koohii #2 Having spent all day stringing together grains of rice he suddenly had an outburst, ""I can take it any longer!"". Primitives outburst, sun, day, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight, grains of rice 暴露(ばくろ): disclosure, exposure, revelation 暴動(ぼうどう): insurrection, rebellion, revolt, riot, uprising 暴風(ぼうふう): storm, windstorm, gale 暴力(ぼうりょく): violence 暴れる(あばれる): act violently, struggle 乱暴(らんぼう): rude, violent, rough, lawless, unreasonable, reckless Kunyomi: あば.く、あば.れる Onyomi: ボウ、バク Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 暴言 (ぼうげん), 横暴 (おうぼう), 乱暴 (らんぼう), 暴く (あば.く), 暴れる (あば.れる)"	"outburst 暴 画数15 1941 Details Story Dictionary 暴 outburst Heisig's Sun . . . strung together . . . rice grains. Koohii #1 If you think of it as of outburst of an atomic bomb (which will also prove useful in the next frame), then imagining thousands of suns blasting in one single outburst of rage and turning people into rice grains is not that hard. Koohii #2 Having spent all day stringing together grains of rice he suddenly had an outburst, ""I can take it any longer!"". Primitives outburst, sun, day, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight, grains of rice 暴露(ばくろ): disclosure, exposure, revelation 暴動(ぼうどう): insurrection, rebellion, revolt, riot, uprising 暴風(ぼうふう): storm, windstorm, gale 暴力(ぼうりょく): violence 暴れる(あばれる): act violently, struggle 乱暴(らんぼう): rude, violent, rough, lawless, unreasonable, reckless Kunyomi: あば.く、あば.れる Onyomi: ボウ、バク Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 暴言 (ぼうげん), 横暴 (おうぼう), 乱暴 (らんぼう), 暴く (あば.く), 暴れる (あば.れる)"
bomb Details Story Dictionary 爆 bomb Heisig's Fire . . . outburst. Koohii #1 Actually means explosion, like an outburst of fire. Koohii #2 Bombs make fiery outbursts. It´s almost too logical, this one. Primitives bomb, fire, outburst, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight, grains of rice 原爆(げんばく): atomic bomb 爆弾(ばくだん): bomb 爆破(ばくは): blast, explosion, blow up 爆発(ばくはつ): explosion, detonation, eruption Kunyomi: は.ぜる Onyomi: バク Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	bomb 爆 画数19 1942 Details Story Dictionary 爆 bomb Heisig's Fire . . . outburst. Koohii #1 Actually means explosion, like an outburst of fire. Koohii #2 Bombs make fiery outbursts. It´s almost too logical, this one. Primitives bomb, fire, outburst, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight, grains of rice 原爆(げんばく): atomic bomb 爆弾(ばくだん): bomb 爆破(ばくは): blast, explosion, blow up 爆発(ばくはつ): explosion, detonation, eruption Kunyomi: は.ぜる Onyomi: バク Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
"respect Details Story Dictionary 恭 respect Heisig's Strung together . . . valentine. Koohii #1 If you wanna stay together you have to show your valentine respect. Koohii #2 As I like Aretha Franklin's song ""R-E-S-P-E-C-T"", I cut out each of the letters from pieces of card, then string them all together and send it to her as a valentine. Primitives respect, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight, valentine Kunyomi: うやうや.しい Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 恭しい (うやうや.しい)"	"respect 恭 画数10 1943 Details Story Dictionary 恭 respect Heisig's Strung together . . . valentine. Koohii #1 If you wanna stay together you have to show your valentine respect. Koohii #2 As I like Aretha Franklin's song ""R-E-S-P-E-C-T"", I cut out each of the letters from pieces of card, then string them all together and send it to her as a valentine. Primitives respect, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight, valentine Kunyomi: うやうや.しい Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 恭しい (うやうや.しい)"
elect Details Story Dictionary 選 elect Heisig's Two snakes . . . strung together . . . road. Koohii #1 Isn't this how the US presedential election works? You are given a choice between two snakes. Their politics are actually strung together but you get to feel as though you chose which one you want to lead you down the political road for the next four years. So which snake are you going to elect? Koohii #2 You´re driving on the road and you see two snakes together. You can´t avoid both, so you have to elect which one gets run over. Primitives elect, southeast, snake, self, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight, road, snake2, self2 選挙(せんきょ): election 選考(せんこう): selection, screening 抽選(ちゅうせん): lottery, raffle, drawing (of lots) 当選(とうせん): being elected, winning the prize 選手(せんしゅ): player (in game), team 選択(せんたく): selection, choice 選ぶ(えらぶ): choose Kunyomi: えら.ぶ Onyomi: セン Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 選ぶ (えら.ぶ)	elect 選 画数15 1944 Details Story Dictionary 選 elect Heisig's Two snakes . . . strung together . . . road. Koohii #1 Isn't this how the US presedential election works? You are given a choice between two snakes. Their politics are actually strung together but you get to feel as though you chose which one you want to lead you down the political road for the next four years. So which snake are you going to elect? Koohii #2 You´re driving on the road and you see two snakes together. You can´t avoid both, so you have to elect which one gets run over. Primitives elect, southeast, snake, self, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight, road, snake2, self2 選挙(せんきょ): election 選考(せんこう): selection, screening 抽選(ちゅうせん): lottery, raffle, drawing (of lots) 当選(とうせん): being elected, winning the prize 選手(せんしゅ): player (in game), team 選択(せんたく): selection, choice 選ぶ(えらぶ): choose Kunyomi: えら.ぶ Onyomi: セン Lesson: 47 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 選ぶ (えら.ぶ)
Mr. Details Story Dictionary 殿 Mr. Heisig's Flags . . . strung together . . . missile. Koohii #1 Mr. President in his palace, ordering missiles to be fired at a harmless enemy in order to unite us together under the flag. Koohii #2 Mr. President! We all stand here together under a national flag. One thing is certain: we´ll never give in. We are launching nuclear missiles now to implement mutually assured destruction protocol. Primitives Mr, flag, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 宮殿(きゅうでん): palace 殿(しんがり): rear, rear unit guard 神殿(しんでん): temple, sacred place 沈殿(ちんでん): precipitation, settlement 殿様(とのさま): feudal lord Kunyomi: との、-どの Onyomi: デン、テン Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 殿堂 (でんどう), 宮殿 (きゅうでん), 貴殿 (きでん), 殿 (との), 殿 (どの)	Mr. 殿 画数13 1945 Details Story Dictionary 殿 Mr. Heisig's Flags . . . strung together . . . missile. Koohii #1 Mr. President in his palace, ordering missiles to be fired at a harmless enemy in order to unite us together under the flag. Koohii #2 Mr. President! We all stand here together under a national flag. One thing is certain: we´ll never give in. We are launching nuclear missiles now to implement mutually assured destruction protocol. Primitives Mr, flag, strung together, salad, animal legs, eight, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 宮殿(きゅうでん): palace 殿(しんがり): rear, rear unit guard 神殿(しんでん): temple, sacred place 沈殿(ちんでん): precipitation, settlement 殿様(とのさま): feudal lord Kunyomi: との、-どの Onyomi: デン、テン Lesson: 47 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 殿堂 (でんどう), 宮殿 (きゅうでん), 貴殿 (きでん), 殿 (との), 殿 (どの)
"well Details Story Dictionary 井 well My Story it looks like tic-tac-toe, so you can say, ""I play tic-tac-toe in the bottom of the well while waiting to be rescued."" Koohii #1 I nearly died by falling in a well. Actually, on two separate occasions. I´m glad to see they´ve added these fence posts. Now the well will be much safer. Koohii #2 Have you ever seen an old fashioned japanese well? == http://cruises.about.com/od/southeastasiacruise1/ig/Osaka-Japan/Ancient-Well-at-Osaka-Castle.htm. Primitives well 伊井(いい): that one, Italy 天井(てんじょう): ceiling, ceiling price 井戸(いど): water well Kunyomi: い Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 油井 (ゆい), 市井 (しせい), 井 (い)"	"well 井 画数4 1946 Details Story Dictionary 井 well My Story it looks like tic-tac-toe, so you can say, ""I play tic-tac-toe in the bottom of the well while waiting to be rescued."" Koohii #1 I nearly died by falling in a well. Actually, on two separate occasions. I´m glad to see they´ve added these fence posts. Now the well will be much safer. Koohii #2 Have you ever seen an old fashioned japanese well? == http://cruises.about.com/od/southeastasiacruise1/ig/Osaka-Japan/Ancient-Well-at-Osaka-Castle.htm. Primitives well 伊井(いい): that one, Italy 天井(てんじょう): ceiling, ceiling price 井戸(いど): water well Kunyomi: い Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 油井 (ゆい), 市井 (しせい), 井 (い)"
donburi Details Story Dictionary 丼 donburi Heisig's Donburi is a bowl of rice with eel or meat on it. The character is a pictograph, perhaps designed by someone who felt that the portion of meat he was served with his bowl of rice looked to be no more than a tiny drop in the well. Koohii #1 A little one is eating a domburi while standing over, looking down into, a WELL. He drops it, and it falls down & down until it looks like nothing more than a DROP, landing at the bottom of the well! Koohii #2 I drop a domburi down into the well for the goblin living there. Primitives domburi, well, drop 丼(どんぶり): porcelain bowl, bowl of rice with food on top Kunyomi: どんぶり Onyomi: トン、タン、ショウ、セイ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 丼 (どんぶりどん)	donburi 丼 画数5 1947 Details Story Dictionary 丼 donburi Heisig's Donburi is a bowl of rice with eel or meat on it. The character is a pictograph, perhaps designed by someone who felt that the portion of meat he was served with his bowl of rice looked to be no more than a tiny drop in the well. Koohii #1 A little one is eating a domburi while standing over, looking down into, a WELL. He drops it, and it falls down & down until it looks like nothing more than a DROP, landing at the bottom of the well! Koohii #2 I drop a domburi down into the well for the goblin living there. Primitives domburi, well, drop 丼(どんぶり): porcelain bowl, bowl of rice with food on top Kunyomi: どんぶり Onyomi: トン、タン、ショウ、セイ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 丼 (どんぶりどん)
surround Details Story Dictionary 囲 surround My Story [Box (shape) + Well ] The well was surrounded by some square encolsure Koohii #1 The village surrounded the well with a wall so kids wouldn´t fall in. Koohii #2 You get good surround sound when your pent-up in well. Primitives surround, pent in, well 囲む(かこむ): surround 周囲(しゅうい): circumference, surroundings, environs 範囲(はんい): extent, scope, sphere, range 雰囲気(ふんいき): atmosphere (e.g. musical), mood, ambience Kunyomi: かこ.む、かこ.う、かこ.い Onyomi: イ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 囲う (かこ.う), 囲む (かこ.む)	surround 囲 画数7 1948 Details Story Dictionary 囲 surround My Story [Box (shape) + Well ] The well was surrounded by some square encolsure Koohii #1 The village surrounded the well with a wall so kids wouldn´t fall in. Koohii #2 You get good surround sound when your pent-up in well. Primitives surround, pent in, well 囲む(かこむ): surround 周囲(しゅうい): circumference, surroundings, environs 範囲(はんい): extent, scope, sphere, range 雰囲気(ふんいき): atmosphere (e.g. musical), mood, ambience Kunyomi: かこ.む、かこ.う、かこ.い Onyomi: イ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 囲う (かこ.う), 囲む (かこ.む)
till Details Story Dictionary 耕 till Heisig's Christmas tree . . . well. Koohii #1 If you just grow your christmas tree in a well, there will be no need to till the soil. Koohii #2 A man was tilling a new plot to plant xmas trees but his tractor hit an old covered-up well and fell halfway in, he´s asking for a new tractor for xmas.. Primitives till, christmas tree, well 耕作(こうさく): cultivation, farming 農耕(のうこう): farming, agriculture 耕地(こうち): arable land 耕す(たがやす): till, plow, cultivate Kunyomi: たがや.す Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 耕す (たがや.す)	till 耕 画数10 1949 Details Story Dictionary 耕 till Heisig's Christmas tree . . . well. Koohii #1 If you just grow your christmas tree in a well, there will be no need to till the soil. Koohii #2 A man was tilling a new plot to plant xmas trees but his tractor hit an old covered-up well and fell halfway in, he´s asking for a new tractor for xmas.. Primitives till, christmas tree, well 耕作(こうさく): cultivation, farming 農耕(のうこう): farming, agriculture 耕地(こうち): arable land 耕す(たがやす): till, plow, cultivate Kunyomi: たがや.す Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 耕す (たがや.す)
Asia Details Story Dictionary 亜 Asia Heisig's In this kanji, the abbreviation for Asia, you should be able to see the character for mouth behind the Roman numeral II. Koohii #1 In Asian countries, people use II chopsticks to get things into their mouths. Just imagine someone shoving a piece of sushi into their mouths with chopsticks. Koohii #2 A mouth barred up and not aloud to speak freely is the sign of asia (korea, China, pakistan etc). Primitives Asia, roman two, mouth 亜科(あか): suborder, subfamily Kunyomi: つ.ぐ Onyomi: ア、アシア Lesson: 48 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	Asia 亜 画数7 1950 Details Story Dictionary 亜 Asia Heisig's In this kanji, the abbreviation for Asia, you should be able to see the character for mouth behind the Roman numeral II. Koohii #1 In Asian countries, people use II chopsticks to get things into their mouths. Just imagine someone shoving a piece of sushi into their mouths with chopsticks. Koohii #2 A mouth barred up and not aloud to speak freely is the sign of asia (korea, China, pakistan etc). Primitives Asia, roman two, mouth 亜科(あか): suborder, subfamily Kunyomi: つ.ぐ Onyomi: ア、アシア Lesson: 48 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
bad Details Story Dictionary 悪 bad My Story Even though *beetles* have *hearts*, I still think they are bad Koohii #1 Because Asian people started to eat Western food, their hearts became bad and they started having heart attacks. Koohii #2 Asian hearts are bad and evil. They invented so much martial arts: karate, judo, kungfu, muay thai, silat, etc... just to hurt each other. They torture their own people (China, North Korea). They torture other people (Japan in China and Korea). And they are able to hide all this behind their nice facade of kindness. Bad, bad Asians. (did i shatter some people´s ideas on Asia? my bad). Primitives bad, Asia, roman two, mouth, heart 悪(あく): evil, wickedness 悪日(あくび): unlucky day 悪化(あっか): deterioration, growing worse, aggravation, degeneration, corruption 悪口(あっこう): abuse, insult, slander, evil speaking 悪戯(いたずら): tease, prank, trick, practical joke, mischief 改悪(かいあく): deterioration, changing for the worse 決まり悪い(きまりわるい): feeling awkward, being ashamed 悪い(にくい): hateful, abominable, poor-looking 善し悪し(よしあし): good or bad, merits or demerits, quality, suitability 悪者(わるもの): bad fellow, rascal, ruffian, scoundrel 悪魔(あくま): evil spirit, devil, demon 意地悪(いじわる): malicious, ill-tempered, unkind 悪口(わるくち): abuse, insult, slander, evil speaking 悪い(わるい): bad, inferior Kunyomi: わる.い、わる-、あ.し、にく.い、-にく.い、ああ、いずくに、いずくんぞ、にく.む Onyomi: アク、オ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 悪事 (あくじ), 悪意 (あくい), 醜悪 (しゅうあく), 悪い (わる.い)	bad 悪 画数11 1951 Details Story Dictionary 悪 bad My Story Even though *beetles* have *hearts*, I still think they are bad Koohii #1 Because Asian people started to eat Western food, their hearts became bad and they started having heart attacks. Koohii #2 Asian hearts are bad and evil. They invented so much martial arts: karate, judo, kungfu, muay thai, silat, etc... just to hurt each other. They torture their own people (China, North Korea). They torture other people (Japan in China and Korea). And they are able to hide all this behind their nice facade of kindness. Bad, bad Asians. (did i shatter some people´s ideas on Asia? my bad). Primitives bad, Asia, roman two, mouth, heart 悪(あく): evil, wickedness 悪日(あくび): unlucky day 悪化(あっか): deterioration, growing worse, aggravation, degeneration, corruption 悪口(あっこう): abuse, insult, slander, evil speaking 悪戯(いたずら): tease, prank, trick, practical joke, mischief 改悪(かいあく): deterioration, changing for the worse 決まり悪い(きまりわるい): feeling awkward, being ashamed 悪い(にくい): hateful, abominable, poor-looking 善し悪し(よしあし): good or bad, merits or demerits, quality, suitability 悪者(わるもの): bad fellow, rascal, ruffian, scoundrel 悪魔(あくま): evil spirit, devil, demon 意地悪(いじわる): malicious, ill-tempered, unkind 悪口(わるくち): abuse, insult, slander, evil speaking 悪い(わるい): bad, inferior Kunyomi: わる.い、わる-、あ.し、にく.い、-にく.い、ああ、いずくに、いずくんぞ、にく.む Onyomi: アク、オ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 悪事 (あくじ), 悪意 (あくい), 醜悪 (しゅうあく), 悪い (わる.い)
"circle Details Story Dictionary 円 circle Heisig's This kanji, also used for Yen, is one you are not likely to need to study formally, since you can hardly get around in Japan without it. The connection is that the yennies, like pennies, are circular in shape. In any case, the elements are: glass canopy . . . walking stick . . . one. Koohii #1 The shape of a Yen coin. Koohii #2 A poor old man is almost killing himself trying to lift a huge glass hood with his cane (using it as a lever), to get to just one yen coin. Note : the kanji refers to a circular, round object, but also to the Japanese currency (pronounced ""en""). Primitives circle, yen 円滑(えんかつ): harmony, smoothness 円満(えんまん): perfection, harmony, peace, smoothness, completeness, satisfaction, integrity 円(えん): yen, circle 円周(えんしゅう): circumference 楕円(だえん): ellipse 円(まる): circle, money 円い(まるい): round, circular, spherical Kunyomi: まる.い、まる、まど、まど.か、まろ.やか Onyomi: エン Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 円い (まる.い)"	"circle 円 画数4 1952 Details Story Dictionary 円 circle Heisig's This kanji, also used for Yen, is one you are not likely to need to study formally, since you can hardly get around in Japan without it. The connection is that the yennies, like pennies, are circular in shape. In any case, the elements are: glass canopy . . . walking stick . . . one. Koohii #1 The shape of a Yen coin. Koohii #2 A poor old man is almost killing himself trying to lift a huge glass hood with his cane (using it as a lever), to get to just one yen coin. Note : the kanji refers to a circular, round object, but also to the Japanese currency (pronounced ""en""). Primitives circle, yen 円滑(えんかつ): harmony, smoothness 円満(えんまん): perfection, harmony, peace, smoothness, completeness, satisfaction, integrity 円(えん): yen, circle 円周(えんしゅう): circumference 楕円(だえん): ellipse 円(まる): circle, money 円い(まるい): round, circular, spherical Kunyomi: まる.い、まる、まど、まど.か、まろ.やか Onyomi: エン Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 円い (まる.い)"
"angle Details Story Dictionary 角 angle Heisig's Bound up . . . glass canopy . . . walking stick . . . two. If you write the character once, you will see why we avoided using the element for soil, which would prompt you to write it in improper order. * As a primitive, imagine the tool used by draftsmen and carpenters to draw right-angles. Koohii #1 A museum display of two walking sticks bound together under a glass canopy, showing the first device used to measure an angle. Koohii #2 The gates have been bound up together leaving no angle to get through...　RTK2:　カク　兎に角　とにかく(anyhow)　""horns on a rabbit"". Primitives angle, bound up, glass canopy, hood, walking cane, stick, two 角(かく): angle, bishop (shogi) 兎角(とかく): anyhow, anyway, somehow or other, generally speaking, in any case, this and that, many, be apt to 角度(かくど): angle 三角(さんかく): triangle, triangular 四角(しかく): square 四角い(しかくい): square 角(すみ): corner, nook 折角(せっかく): with trouble, at great pains, long-awaited 直角(ちょっかく): right angle 方角(ほうがく): direction, way, compass point 街角(まちかど): street corner 四つ角(よつかど): four corners, crossroads 角(かど): corner, horn Kunyomi: かど、つの Onyomi: カク Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 角 (かど), 角 (つの)"	"angle 角 画数7 1953 Details Story Dictionary 角 angle Heisig's Bound up . . . glass canopy . . . walking stick . . . two. If you write the character once, you will see why we avoided using the element for soil, which would prompt you to write it in improper order. * As a primitive, imagine the tool used by draftsmen and carpenters to draw right-angles. Koohii #1 A museum display of two walking sticks bound together under a glass canopy, showing the first device used to measure an angle. Koohii #2 The gates have been bound up together leaving no angle to get through...　RTK2:　カク　兎に角　とにかく(anyhow)　""horns on a rabbit"". Primitives angle, bound up, glass canopy, hood, walking cane, stick, two 角(かく): angle, bishop (shogi) 兎角(とかく): anyhow, anyway, somehow or other, generally speaking, in any case, this and that, many, be apt to 角度(かくど): angle 三角(さんかく): triangle, triangular 四角(しかく): square 四角い(しかくい): square 角(すみ): corner, nook 折角(せっかく): with trouble, at great pains, long-awaited 直角(ちょっかく): right angle 方角(ほうがく): direction, way, compass point 街角(まちかど): street corner 四つ角(よつかど): four corners, crossroads 角(かど): corner, horn Kunyomi: かど、つの Onyomi: カク Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 角 (かど), 角 (つの)"
contact Details Story Dictionary 触 contact My Story The bug came in contact with the windshield at a sharp angle. It didnt make it. Koohii #1 For insects to get in contact with each other, they need to place their antennae at just the right angle. Koohii #2 Wow, he threw that BOOMERANG with such skill, it made CONTACT with that INSECT in mid flight. Primitives contact, angle, bound up, glass canopy, hood, walking cane, stick, two, insect 気触れる(かぶれる): to react to, to be influenced by, to go overboard for 感触(かんしょく): sense of touch, feeling, sensation 接触(せっしょく): touch, contact 触れる(ふれる): touch, be touched, touch on a subject, feel, violate (law, copyright, etc.), perceive, be moved (emotionally) 触る(さわる): touch Kunyomi: ふ.れる、さわ.る、さわ Onyomi: ショク Lesson: 48 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 触る (さわ.る), 触れる (ふ.れる)	contact 触 画数13 1954 Details Story Dictionary 触 contact My Story The bug came in contact with the windshield at a sharp angle. It didnt make it. Koohii #1 For insects to get in contact with each other, they need to place their antennae at just the right angle. Koohii #2 Wow, he threw that BOOMERANG with such skill, it made CONTACT with that INSECT in mid flight. Primitives contact, angle, bound up, glass canopy, hood, walking cane, stick, two, insect 気触れる(かぶれる): to react to, to be influenced by, to go overboard for 感触(かんしょく): sense of touch, feeling, sensation 接触(せっしょく): touch, contact 触れる(ふれる): touch, be touched, touch on a subject, feel, violate (law, copyright, etc.), perceive, be moved (emotionally) 触る(さわる): touch Kunyomi: ふ.れる、さわ.る、さわ Onyomi: ショク Lesson: 48 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 触る (さわ.る), 触れる (ふ.れる)
unravel Details Story Dictionary 解 unravel My Story [Angle {角} + Sword + Cow] Sherlock solved the mystery by unraveling at what *ANGLE* the *SWORD* went into the *COW*. Koohii #1 Did you know that you can unravel a cow? If you stick the dagger in at exactly the correct angle, the whole cow will just unravel. Koohii #2 Unravel the mystery by determining at what ANGLE the SWORD went into the COW. Primitives unravel, angle, bound up, glass canopy, hood, walking cane, stick, two, sword, dagger, cow 解除(かいじょ): cancellation, rescinding, release, calling off 解剖(かいぼう): dissection, autopsy 正解(せいかい): correct, right, correct interpretation (answer solution) 弁解(べんかい): explanation, justification, defence, excuse 解く(ほどく): to unfasten 了解(りょうかい): comprehension, consent, understanding, roger (on the radio) 解決(かいけつ): settlement, solution, resolution 解散(かいさん): breakup, dissolution 解釈(かいしゃく): explanation, interpretation 解説(かいせつ): explanation, commentary 解答(かいとう): answer, solution 解放(かいほう): release, liberation, emancipation 見解(けんかい): opinion, point of view 誤解(ごかい): misunderstanding 解く(とく): solve, answer, unravel, untie 解ける(とける): loosen 分解(ぶんかい): analysis, disassembly 理解(りかい): understanding, comprehension Kunyomi: と.く、と.かす、と.ける、ほど.く、ほど.ける、わか.る、さと.る Onyomi: カイ、ゲ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 解決 (かいけつ), 解禁 (かいきん), 理解 (りかい), 解かす (と.かす), 解く (と.く), 解ける (と.ける)	unravel 解 画数13 1955 Details Story Dictionary 解 unravel My Story [Angle {角} + Sword + Cow] Sherlock solved the mystery by unraveling at what *ANGLE* the *SWORD* went into the *COW*. Koohii #1 Did you know that you can unravel a cow? If you stick the dagger in at exactly the correct angle, the whole cow will just unravel. Koohii #2 Unravel the mystery by determining at what ANGLE the SWORD went into the COW. Primitives unravel, angle, bound up, glass canopy, hood, walking cane, stick, two, sword, dagger, cow 解除(かいじょ): cancellation, rescinding, release, calling off 解剖(かいぼう): dissection, autopsy 正解(せいかい): correct, right, correct interpretation (answer solution) 弁解(べんかい): explanation, justification, defence, excuse 解く(ほどく): to unfasten 了解(りょうかい): comprehension, consent, understanding, roger (on the radio) 解決(かいけつ): settlement, solution, resolution 解散(かいさん): breakup, dissolution 解釈(かいしゃく): explanation, interpretation 解説(かいせつ): explanation, commentary 解答(かいとう): answer, solution 解放(かいほう): release, liberation, emancipation 見解(けんかい): opinion, point of view 誤解(ごかい): misunderstanding 解く(とく): solve, answer, unravel, untie 解ける(とける): loosen 分解(ぶんかい): analysis, disassembly 理解(りかい): understanding, comprehension Kunyomi: と.く、と.かす、と.ける、ほど.く、ほど.ける、わか.る、さと.る Onyomi: カイ、ゲ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 解決 (かいけつ), 解禁 (かいきん), 理解 (りかい), 解かす (と.かす), 解く (と.く), 解ける (と.ける)
"again Details Story Dictionary 再 again Heisig's Jewel . . . with a belt hung on it. Note how the belt is drawn right after the first stroke of jewel. Koohii #1 The king has eaten too much and has to get a new belt again. See his fat rolls hanging over? Koohii #2 This is a belt with a non-adjustable jeweled buckle. Everytime you go back to the leathersmith telling him to move the buckle because you´ve packed on a few pounds (but that this is the last time!), he says ""Again?!? Weren´t you just here last month?"". Primitives again, king, jewel, ball, belt 再(さい): re-, again, repeated 再会(さいかい): another meeting, meeting again, reunion 再建(さいけん): rebuilding, reconstruction, rehabilitation 再現(さいげん): reappearance, reproduction, return, revival 再生(さいせい): playback, regeneration, resuscitation, return to life, rebirth, reincarnation, narrow escape, reclamation, regrowth 再発(さいはつ): return, relapse, reoccurrence 再三(さいさん): again and again, repeatedly 再来月(さらいげつ): month after next 再来週(さらいしゅう): week after next 再び(ふたたび): again, once more, a second time 再来年(さらいねん): year after next Kunyomi: ふたた.び Onyomi: サイ、サ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 再度 (さいど), 再選 (さいせん), 再出発 (さいしゅっぱつ), 再び (ふたた.び)"	"again 再 画数6 1956 Details Story Dictionary 再 again Heisig's Jewel . . . with a belt hung on it. Note how the belt is drawn right after the first stroke of jewel. Koohii #1 The king has eaten too much and has to get a new belt again. See his fat rolls hanging over? Koohii #2 This is a belt with a non-adjustable jeweled buckle. Everytime you go back to the leathersmith telling him to move the buckle because you´ve packed on a few pounds (but that this is the last time!), he says ""Again?!? Weren´t you just here last month?"". Primitives again, king, jewel, ball, belt 再(さい): re-, again, repeated 再会(さいかい): another meeting, meeting again, reunion 再建(さいけん): rebuilding, reconstruction, rehabilitation 再現(さいげん): reappearance, reproduction, return, revival 再生(さいせい): playback, regeneration, resuscitation, return to life, rebirth, reincarnation, narrow escape, reclamation, regrowth 再発(さいはつ): return, relapse, reoccurrence 再三(さいさん): again and again, repeatedly 再来月(さらいげつ): month after next 再来週(さらいしゅう): week after next 再び(ふたたび): again, once more, a second time 再来年(さらいねん): year after next Kunyomi: ふたた.び Onyomi: サイ、サ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 再度 (さいど), 再選 (さいせん), 再出発 (さいしゅっぱつ), 再び (ふたた.び)"
lecture Details Story Dictionary 講 lecture My Story [Say + funnel ] Koohii #1 I have a funnel attached to my laptop that takes my prof´s lecture and puts the words into a text file. The bigger the funnel, the more accurate the conversion, so picture a bunch of laptops with large, unwieldy funnels attached to the USB port. Koohii #2 Image: a professor walking around with a funnel and simply pouring his words into each students head instead of a lecture. (Primitive: FUNNEL, who got the celery stuck in the funnel again?! You know it´s not supposed to be used for that!). Primitives lecture, say, words, keitai, mouth, funnel, cone, celery, again 講習(こうしゅう): short course, training 講読(こうどく): reading, translation 聴講(ちょうこう): lecture attendance, auditing 休講(きゅうこう): lecture cancelled 講演(こうえん): lecture, address 講師(こうし): lecturer 講義(こうぎ): lecture 講堂(こうどう): lecture hall Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	lecture 講 画数17 1957 Details Story Dictionary 講 lecture My Story [Say + funnel ] Koohii #1 I have a funnel attached to my laptop that takes my prof´s lecture and puts the words into a text file. The bigger the funnel, the more accurate the conversion, so picture a bunch of laptops with large, unwieldy funnels attached to the USB port. Koohii #2 Image: a professor walking around with a funnel and simply pouring his words into each students head instead of a lecture. (Primitive: FUNNEL, who got the celery stuck in the funnel again?! You know it´s not supposed to be used for that!). Primitives lecture, say, words, keitai, mouth, funnel, cone, celery, again 講習(こうしゅう): short course, training 講読(こうどく): reading, translation 聴講(ちょうこう): lecture attendance, auditing 休講(きゅうこう): lecture cancelled 講演(こうえん): lecture, address 講師(こうし): lecturer 講義(こうぎ): lecture 講堂(こうどう): lecture hall Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
subscription Details Story Dictionary 購 subscription Heisig's Shells . . . funnel. The key word is meant to suggest magazine subscriptions and the like. Koohii #1 Subscription is like a money funnel, because the receiving end is small (just one company) and the other end is wide (the whole country). Koohii #2 My subscription to Money magazine came with a free coin funnel. Primitives subscription, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, funnel, cone, celery, again 購読(こうどく): subscription (e.g. magazine) 購入(こうにゅう): purchase, buy 購買(こうばい): purchase, buy Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	subscription 購 画数17 1958 Details Story Dictionary 購 subscription Heisig's Shells . . . funnel. The key word is meant to suggest magazine subscriptions and the like. Koohii #1 Subscription is like a money funnel, because the receiving end is small (just one company) and the other end is wide (the whole country). Koohii #2 My subscription to Money magazine came with a free coin funnel. Primitives subscription, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight, funnel, cone, celery, again 購読(こうどく): subscription (e.g. magazine) 購入(こうにゅう): purchase, buy 購買(こうばい): purchase, buy Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
posture Details Story Dictionary 構 posture Heisig's Tree . . . funnel. Koohii #1 Ideal posture is standing tall like a tree and having a V shape like a funnel Koohii #2 I fell out of a tree and broke my neck. So they put one of those white funnels around my neck to correct my posture. Primitives posture, tree, wood, funnel, cone, celery, again 構え(かまえ): posture, pose, style 構える(かまえる): to set up 機構(きこう): mechanism, organization 構想(こうそう): plan, plot, idea, conception 構う(かまう): mind, care about, be concerned about 構成(こうせい): organization, composition 構造(こうぞう): structure, construction 結構(けっこう): splendid, nice, wonderful, delicious, sweet, construction, architecture, well enough, tolerably Kunyomi: かま.える、かま.う Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 構う (かま.う), 構える (かま.える)	posture 構 画数14 1959 Details Story Dictionary 構 posture Heisig's Tree . . . funnel. Koohii #1 Ideal posture is standing tall like a tree and having a V shape like a funnel Koohii #2 I fell out of a tree and broke my neck. So they put one of those white funnels around my neck to correct my posture. Primitives posture, tree, wood, funnel, cone, celery, again 構え(かまえ): posture, pose, style 構える(かまえる): to set up 機構(きこう): mechanism, organization 構想(こうそう): plan, plot, idea, conception 構う(かまう): mind, care about, be concerned about 構成(こうせい): organization, composition 構造(こうぞう): structure, construction 結構(けっこう): splendid, nice, wonderful, delicious, sweet, construction, architecture, well enough, tolerably Kunyomi: かま.える、かま.う Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 構う (かま.う), 構える (かま.える)
gutter Details Story Dictionary 溝 gutter Heisig's Water . . . funnel. Koohii #1 A gutter funnels water. Koohii #2 A gutter takes the water that falls as rain and funnels it off to where it can be dealt with appropriately. Primitives gutter, water, water droplets, water pistol, funnel, cone, celery, again 溝(こう): 10^38, hundred undecillion (American), hundred sextillion (British) Kunyomi: みぞ Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 溝 (みぞ)	gutter 溝 画数13 1960 Details Story Dictionary 溝 gutter Heisig's Water . . . funnel. Koohii #1 A gutter funnels water. Koohii #2 A gutter takes the water that falls as rain and funnels it off to where it can be dealt with appropriately. Primitives gutter, water, water droplets, water pistol, funnel, cone, celery, again 溝(こう): 10^38, hundred undecillion (American), hundred sextillion (British) Kunyomi: みぞ Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 48 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 溝 (みぞ)
argument Details Story Dictionary 論 argument Heisig's Words . . . meeting . . . scrapbook. The argument here is a process of academic reasoning, not a personal quarrel or spat. Koohii #1 Right part: academic conference (a meeting, some of the attendees making notes in scrapbooks during presentation). Argument at academic conferences is naturally carried out using words. Koohii #2 It´s very difficult to present a good argument if you don´t bring along a scrapbook with some key words jotted down to the meeting. Primitives argument, say, words, keitai, mouth, post-it note, meeting, scrapbook, glass canopy, hood, flowers 異論(いろん): different opinion, objection 言論(げんろん): discussion 世論(せろん): public opinion 討論(とうろん): debate, discussion 弁論(べんろん): discussion, debate, argument 無論(むろん): of course, naturally 目論見(もくろみ): a plan, a scheme, a project, a program, intention, goal 理論(りろん): theory 論議(ろんぎ): discussion 論理(ろんり): logic 概論(がいろん): introduction, outline, general remarks 議論(ぎろん): argument, discussion, dispute 結論(けつろん): reason, sum up, conclude 評論(ひょうろん): criticism, critique 勿論(もちろん): of course, certainly, naturally 論じる(ろんじる): argue, discuss, debate 論ずる(ろんずる): argue, discuss, debate 論争(ろんそう): controversy, dispute 論文(ろんぶん): thesis, essay, treatise, paper Kunyomi: Onyomi: ロン Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	argument 論 画数15 1961 Details Story Dictionary 論 argument Heisig's Words . . . meeting . . . scrapbook. The argument here is a process of academic reasoning, not a personal quarrel or spat. Koohii #1 Right part: academic conference (a meeting, some of the attendees making notes in scrapbooks during presentation). Argument at academic conferences is naturally carried out using words. Koohii #2 It´s very difficult to present a good argument if you don´t bring along a scrapbook with some key words jotted down to the meeting. Primitives argument, say, words, keitai, mouth, post-it note, meeting, scrapbook, glass canopy, hood, flowers 異論(いろん): different opinion, objection 言論(げんろん): discussion 世論(せろん): public opinion 討論(とうろん): debate, discussion 弁論(べんろん): discussion, debate, argument 無論(むろん): of course, naturally 目論見(もくろみ): a plan, a scheme, a project, a program, intention, goal 理論(りろん): theory 論議(ろんぎ): discussion 論理(ろんり): logic 概論(がいろん): introduction, outline, general remarks 議論(ぎろん): argument, discussion, dispute 結論(けつろん): reason, sum up, conclude 評論(ひょうろん): criticism, critique 勿論(もちろん): of course, certainly, naturally 論じる(ろんじる): argue, discuss, debate 論ずる(ろんずる): argue, discuss, debate 論争(ろんそう): controversy, dispute 論文(ろんぶん): thesis, essay, treatise, paper Kunyomi: Onyomi: ロン Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
"ethics Details Story Dictionary 倫 ethics Heisig's Person . . . meeting . . . scrapbook. Koohii #1 Mr. T talks about ethics at the academic conference. ""I pity the fool who gets caught plagarizing someone else´s stuff!"". Koohii #2 Mr. T has no ethics at the scrapbooking convention. He´ll do whatever it takes to beat all those ladies. Primitives ethics, person, post-it note, meeting, scrapbook, glass canopy, hood, flowers Kunyomi: Onyomi: リン Lesson: 48 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"ethics 倫 画数10 1962 Details Story Dictionary 倫 ethics Heisig's Person . . . meeting . . . scrapbook. Koohii #1 Mr. T talks about ethics at the academic conference. ""I pity the fool who gets caught plagarizing someone else´s stuff!"". Koohii #2 Mr. T has no ethics at the scrapbooking convention. He´ll do whatever it takes to beat all those ladies. Primitives ethics, person, post-it note, meeting, scrapbook, glass canopy, hood, flowers Kunyomi: Onyomi: リン Lesson: 48 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"wheel Details Story Dictionary 輪 wheel My Story The *car's* wheels crashed while we were going to the *bookstore*. At the car {車} buffs' meeting 合, they spoke volumes {冊} on the subject of their wheels. 車輪、しゃりん, car wheel: 車輪は車軸で回転する, ""Car wheels rotate on axles."" Rolled-up scrolls also have axes; how tomes 冊 were written in the old days. リン -> ""rim"" -> wheel. 指輪、ゆびわ, finger ring. Be careful: - {輸} Koohii #1 During a talk at the academic conference, speaker shows an introductory slide depicting the structure of car, and then moves on to the more narrow topic of wheels. Koohii #2 Someone stole all the wheels off the ladies´ cars at the scrapbook convention. Primitives wheel, car, post-it note, meeting, scrapbook, glass canopy, hood, flowers 首輪(くびわ): necklace, choker 年輪(ねんりん): annual tree ring 輪(りん): counter for wheels and flowers 車輪(しゃりん): (car) wheel 輪(わ): ring, hoop, circle 指輪(ゆびわ): ring Kunyomi: わ Onyomi: リン Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 輪 (わ)"	"wheel 輪 画数15 1963 Details Story Dictionary 輪 wheel My Story The *car's* wheels crashed while we were going to the *bookstore*. At the car {車} buffs' meeting 合, they spoke volumes {冊} on the subject of their wheels. 車輪、しゃりん, car wheel: 車輪は車軸で回転する, ""Car wheels rotate on axles."" Rolled-up scrolls also have axes; how tomes 冊 were written in the old days. リン -> ""rim"" -> wheel. 指輪、ゆびわ, finger ring. Be careful: - {輸} Koohii #1 During a talk at the academic conference, speaker shows an introductory slide depicting the structure of car, and then moves on to the more narrow topic of wheels. Koohii #2 Someone stole all the wheels off the ladies´ cars at the scrapbook convention. Primitives wheel, car, post-it note, meeting, scrapbook, glass canopy, hood, flowers 首輪(くびわ): necklace, choker 年輪(ねんりん): annual tree ring 輪(りん): counter for wheels and flowers 車輪(しゃりん): (car) wheel 輪(わ): ring, hoop, circle 指輪(ゆびわ): ring Kunyomi: わ Onyomi: リン Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 輪 (わ)"
partial Details Story Dictionary 偏 partial Heisig's Person . . . door . . . scrapbook. The sense of the key-word is that of having a bias or preference for someone or something. Koohii #1 Mr. T is partial to konbini hentai. He reads them for hours every day after work at his local konbini. (Primitive: KONBINI HENTAI, all the magazines(scrapbooks) by every konbini door in Japan). Koohii #2 Mr. T is very partial to hentai comic books. I know because he dropped a pile of them when I accidentally bumped into him at the door to kinokuniya! Primitives partial, person, fishfinger, door, one, ceiling, flag, scrapbook, glass canopy, hood, flowers 偏る(かたよる): to be one-sided, to incline, to be partial, to be prejudiced, to lean, to be biased 偏(へん): side, left radical of a character, inclining, inclining toward, biased 偏見(へんけん): prejudice, narrow view Kunyomi: かたよ.る Onyomi: ヘン Lesson: 48 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 偏る (かたよ.る)	partial 偏 画数11 1964 Details Story Dictionary 偏 partial Heisig's Person . . . door . . . scrapbook. The sense of the key-word is that of having a bias or preference for someone or something. Koohii #1 Mr. T is partial to konbini hentai. He reads them for hours every day after work at his local konbini. (Primitive: KONBINI HENTAI, all the magazines(scrapbooks) by every konbini door in Japan). Koohii #2 Mr. T is very partial to hentai comic books. I know because he dropped a pile of them when I accidentally bumped into him at the door to kinokuniya! Primitives partial, person, fishfinger, door, one, ceiling, flag, scrapbook, glass canopy, hood, flowers 偏る(かたよる): to be one-sided, to incline, to be partial, to be prejudiced, to lean, to be biased 偏(へん): side, left radical of a character, inclining, inclining toward, biased 偏見(へんけん): prejudice, narrow view Kunyomi: かたよ.る Onyomi: ヘン Lesson: 48 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 偏る (かたよ.る)
everywhere Details Story Dictionary 遍 everywhere Heisig's Door . . . scrapbook . . . a road. Koohii #1 Go down the road in Japan and you will find comics EVERYWHERE, newpaper stands, 7-11, Tsutaya, even the supermarket. Comics are everywhere here along the road. Koohii #2 Go down any road in Japan and you´ll find konbini hentai everywhere. Primitives everywhere, fishfinger, door, one, ceiling, flag, scrapbook, glass canopy, hood, flowers, road 普遍(ふへん): universality, ubiquity, omnipresence Kunyomi: あまね.く Onyomi: ヘン Lesson: 48 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	everywhere 遍 画数12 1965 Details Story Dictionary 遍 everywhere Heisig's Door . . . scrapbook . . . a road. Koohii #1 Go down the road in Japan and you will find comics EVERYWHERE, newpaper stands, 7-11, Tsutaya, even the supermarket. Comics are everywhere here along the road. Koohii #2 Go down any road in Japan and you´ll find konbini hentai everywhere. Primitives everywhere, fishfinger, door, one, ceiling, flag, scrapbook, glass canopy, hood, flowers, road 普遍(ふへん): universality, ubiquity, omnipresence Kunyomi: あまね.く Onyomi: ヘン Lesson: 48 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
compilation Details Story Dictionary 編 compilation Heisig's Thread . . . door . . . scrapbook. Koohii #1 Raulir has a good idea. I prefer to think of the manga compilations as the individual comics (serials from the anthologies) bound together with a coarse thread down the spine, produced quickly and put on the market. Good way to recycle those pulpy manga, and since when has the consumer not gotten screwed in Japan? ;-). Koohii #2 A Japanese comic book is a compilation of the individual chapters (which have already appeared in weekly comic magazines) with a thread (story arc) going through it. Primitives compilation, thread, spiderman, fishfinger, door, one, ceiling, flag, scrapbook, glass canopy, hood, flowers 長編(ちょうへん): long (e.g. novel film) 編(へん): compilation, editing, completed poem, book, part of book 編物(あみもの): knitting, web 編む(あむ): to knit, to braid, compile (anthology, dictionary, etc.), edit 短編(たんぺん): short (e.g. story, film) 編集(へんしゅう): editing, compilation, editorial (e.g. committee) Kunyomi: あ.む、-あ.み Onyomi: ヘン Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 編む (あ.む)	compilation 編 画数15 1966 Details Story Dictionary 編 compilation Heisig's Thread . . . door . . . scrapbook. Koohii #1 Raulir has a good idea. I prefer to think of the manga compilations as the individual comics (serials from the anthologies) bound together with a coarse thread down the spine, produced quickly and put on the market. Good way to recycle those pulpy manga, and since when has the consumer not gotten screwed in Japan? ;-). Koohii #2 A Japanese comic book is a compilation of the individual chapters (which have already appeared in weekly comic magazines) with a thread (story arc) going through it. Primitives compilation, thread, spiderman, fishfinger, door, one, ceiling, flag, scrapbook, glass canopy, hood, flowers 長編(ちょうへん): long (e.g. novel film) 編(へん): compilation, editing, completed poem, book, part of book 編物(あみもの): knitting, web 編む(あむ): to knit, to braid, compile (anthology, dictionary, etc.), edit 短編(たんぺん): short (e.g. story, film) 編集(へんしゅう): editing, compilation, editorial (e.g. committee) Kunyomi: あ.む、-あ.み Onyomi: ヘン Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 編む (あ.む)
tome Details Story Dictionary 冊 tome Heisig's This key word is a counter for books. It differs from scrapbook both in the writing order and in the extension of the second horizontal stroke. Koohii #1 Pictograph. I think of that Harry Potter spell book that had to be bound shut coz it wanted to eat you. Koohii #2 冊 さつ 1: counter for books A heavy scrapbook so full that flowers are sticking out. Only if a scrapbook is that full, it can be called a heavy book. Primitives tome 冊(さつ): counter for books Kunyomi: ふみ Onyomi: サツ、サク Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 冊子 (さっし), 別冊 (べっさつ)	tome 冊 画数5 1967 Details Story Dictionary 冊 tome Heisig's This key word is a counter for books. It differs from scrapbook both in the writing order and in the extension of the second horizontal stroke. Koohii #1 Pictograph. I think of that Harry Potter spell book that had to be bound shut coz it wanted to eat you. Koohii #2 冊 さつ 1: counter for books A heavy scrapbook so full that flowers are sticking out. Only if a scrapbook is that full, it can be called a heavy book. Primitives tome 冊(さつ): counter for books Kunyomi: ふみ Onyomi: サツ、サク Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 冊子 (さっし), 別冊 (べっさつ)
"palisade Details Story Dictionary 柵 palisade Heisig's Tree . . . tome. Koohii #1 A palisade is a ""fence of stakes especially for defense,"" usually the stakes are very strong, set closely together, and pointed on top. Tome can be seen as a pictograph of several close-set wooden stakes, braced by one horizontal bar. Koohii #2 An army of scholars build a wooden palisade to protect their precious tome of literature. Primitives palisade, tree, wood, tome 柵(さく): fence, paling Kunyomi: しがら.む、しがらみ、とりで、やらい Onyomi: サク、サン Lesson: 48 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"palisade 柵 画数9 1968 Details Story Dictionary 柵 palisade Heisig's Tree . . . tome. Koohii #1 A palisade is a ""fence of stakes especially for defense,"" usually the stakes are very strong, set closely together, and pointed on top. Tome can be seen as a pictograph of several close-set wooden stakes, braced by one horizontal bar. Koohii #2 An army of scholars build a wooden palisade to protect their precious tome of literature. Primitives palisade, tree, wood, tome 柵(さく): fence, paling Kunyomi: しがら.む、しがらみ、とりで、やらい Onyomi: サク、サン Lesson: 48 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
"code Details Story Dictionary 典 code Heisig's We introduce this character here because of its connection to the book-related kanji treated above. It is based on the character for bend (frame 1256), whose last stroke is lengthened to coincide with the first stroke of the element for tool. Koohii #1 Coding is a tool which you can use to bend the computer to your will. Koohii #2 Think ""codex"" (mnemonic help) or ""code of laws"", or even Leonardo Da Vinci´s code. Here I see a codex as a tool used to bend the masses into submission. Picture a huge codex book lifted down on crowds to bend them down in submission. Another: if you bend to the code without asking questions, you are a tool! Primitives code, bend, tool 原典(げんてん): original (text) 百科事典(ひゃっかじてん): encyclopedia 百科辞典(ひゃっかじてん): encyclopedia 古典(こてん): old book, classic, classics 典型(てんけい): type, pattern, archetypal 辞典(じてん): dictionary Kunyomi: Onyomi: テン、デン Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"code 典 画数8 1969 Details Story Dictionary 典 code Heisig's We introduce this character here because of its connection to the book-related kanji treated above. It is based on the character for bend (frame 1256), whose last stroke is lengthened to coincide with the first stroke of the element for tool. Koohii #1 Coding is a tool which you can use to bend the computer to your will. Koohii #2 Think ""codex"" (mnemonic help) or ""code of laws"", or even Leonardo Da Vinci´s code. Here I see a codex as a tool used to bend the masses into submission. Picture a huge codex book lifted down on crowds to bend them down in submission. Another: if you bend to the code without asking questions, you are a tool! Primitives code, bend, tool 原典(げんてん): original (text) 百科事典(ひゃっかじてん): encyclopedia 百科辞典(ひゃっかじてん): encyclopedia 古典(こてん): old book, classic, classics 典型(てんけい): type, pattern, archetypal 辞典(じてん): dictionary Kunyomi: Onyomi: テン、デン Lesson: 48 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
family name Details Story Dictionary 氏 family name Heisig's Pay close attention to the stroke order of the elements when learning to write this character. The elements: a long drop . . . fishhook . . . a one . . . fishhook. Koohii #1 Looks a bit like Ft => Family title => Family name. Koohii #2 The family name is important to me! Drop me from a building, torture me with a fishhook, I´m keeping my one family name. Hook me with a second fishhook, I refuse to change my family name. Primitives family name, drop, fishhook, fishhook2 氏(うじ): family name 氏(し): family name, lineage 氏名(しめい): full name, identity Kunyomi: うじ、-うじ Onyomi: シ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 氏 (うじ)	family name 氏 画数4 1970 Details Story Dictionary 氏 family name Heisig's Pay close attention to the stroke order of the elements when learning to write this character. The elements: a long drop . . . fishhook . . . a one . . . fishhook. Koohii #1 Looks a bit like Ft => Family title => Family name. Koohii #2 The family name is important to me! Drop me from a building, torture me with a fishhook, I´m keeping my one family name. Hook me with a second fishhook, I refuse to change my family name. Primitives family name, drop, fishhook, fishhook2 氏(うじ): family name 氏(し): family name, lineage 氏名(しめい): full name, identity Kunyomi: うじ、-うじ Onyomi: シ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 氏 (うじ)
paper Details Story Dictionary 紙 paper Heisig's Thread . . . family name. Koohii #1 All that threads you to your family name is a piece of paper. (birth certificate). Koohii #2 I imagine a ridiculously expensive, and rather pointless, Japanese type of paper for writing letters, with one´s family name woven in fine thread somewhere in a corner. Primitives paper, thread, spiderman, family name 張り紙(はりがみ): paper patch, paper backing, poster 用紙(ようし): blank form 紙屑(かみくず): wastepaper 紙幣(しへい): paper money, notes, bills 塵紙(ちりがみ): tissue paper, toilet paper 表紙(ひょうし): front cover, binding 紙(かみ): paper 手紙(てがみ): letter Kunyomi: かみ Onyomi: シ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 紙 (かみ)	paper 紙 画数10 1971 Details Story Dictionary 紙 paper Heisig's Thread . . . family name. Koohii #1 All that threads you to your family name is a piece of paper. (birth certificate). Koohii #2 I imagine a ridiculously expensive, and rather pointless, Japanese type of paper for writing letters, with one´s family name woven in fine thread somewhere in a corner. Primitives paper, thread, spiderman, family name 張り紙(はりがみ): paper patch, paper backing, poster 用紙(ようし): blank form 紙屑(かみくず): wastepaper 紙幣(しへい): paper money, notes, bills 塵紙(ちりがみ): tissue paper, toilet paper 表紙(ひょうし): front cover, binding 紙(かみ): paper 手紙(てがみ): letter Kunyomi: かみ Onyomi: シ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 紙 (かみ)
marriage Details Story Dictionary 婚 marriage My Story [Woman + family name {氏} + day] The *day* a *woman* gets married she changes her *family name* Koohii #1 Marriage is the day in this woman´s life where she gets a new family name. Koohii #2 Tip: Heisig later introduces the kanji 昏 dusk (#2451). Story: Never enter into marriage with a woman at dusk (wait until you see them in daylight). Note: This is an ancient proverb . . . (probably). Primitives marriage, woman, dusk, family name, day 既婚(きこん): marriage, married 新婚(しんこん): newly-wed 未婚(みこん): unmarried 婚約(こんやく): engagement, betrothal 離婚(りこん): divorce 結婚(けっこん): marriage Kunyomi: Onyomi: コン Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	marriage 婚 画数11 1972 Details Story Dictionary 婚 marriage My Story [Woman + family name {氏} + day] The *day* a *woman* gets married she changes her *family name* Koohii #1 Marriage is the day in this woman´s life where she gets a new family name. Koohii #2 Tip: Heisig later introduces the kanji 昏 dusk (#2451). Story: Never enter into marriage with a woman at dusk (wait until you see them in daylight). Note: This is an ancient proverb . . . (probably). Primitives marriage, woman, dusk, family name, day 既婚(きこん): marriage, married 新婚(しんこん): newly-wed 未婚(みこん): unmarried 婚約(こんやく): engagement, betrothal 離婚(りこん): divorce 結婚(けっこん): marriage Kunyomi: Onyomi: コン Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
lower Details Story Dictionary 低 lower Heisig's Person . . . calling card. Koohii #1 A person bows low when presenting his business card. Koohii #2 Mr. T travels to Japan and knows he must bow lower when presenting his business card. Primitives lower, person, calling card, family name, one, floor 最低(さいてい): least, lowest, worst, nasty, disgusting, horrible, yuck! 低下(ていか): decline, deterioration 低い(ひくい): short, low, humble, low (voice) Kunyomi: ひく.い、ひく.める、ひく.まる Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 低い (ひく.い), 低まる (ひく.まる), 低める (ひく.める)	lower 低 画数7 1973 Details Story Dictionary 低 lower Heisig's Person . . . calling card. Koohii #1 A person bows low when presenting his business card. Koohii #2 Mr. T travels to Japan and knows he must bow lower when presenting his business card. Primitives lower, person, calling card, family name, one, floor 最低(さいてい): least, lowest, worst, nasty, disgusting, horrible, yuck! 低下(ていか): decline, deterioration 低い(ひくい): short, low, humble, low (voice) Kunyomi: ひく.い、ひく.める、ひく.まる Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 低い (ひく.い), 低まる (ひく.まる), 低める (ひく.める)
resist Details Story Dictionary 抵 resist Heisig's Fingers . . . calling card. Koohii #1 Japan business etiquette tip: When someone hands you a business card, resist the impulse to fiddle around with it with your fingers, and by all means resist the urge to use the card to pick gunk from under your fingernails. Just examine it carefully, ask politely about the (few by now) kanji that you don´t know, and put it away carefully in a location that shows your counterparts how important they are to you. Koohii #2 Most japanese find it impossible to resist pushy businessmen in Japan when they push their damned business cards into your fingers. Primitives resist, finger, fingers, calling card, family name, one, floor 大抵(たいてい): usually, generally 抵抗(ていこう): electrical resistance, resistance, opposition Kunyomi: Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	resist 抵 画数8 1974 Details Story Dictionary 抵 resist Heisig's Fingers . . . calling card. Koohii #1 Japan business etiquette tip: When someone hands you a business card, resist the impulse to fiddle around with it with your fingers, and by all means resist the urge to use the card to pick gunk from under your fingernails. Just examine it carefully, ask politely about the (few by now) kanji that you don´t know, and put it away carefully in a location that shows your counterparts how important they are to you. Koohii #2 Most japanese find it impossible to resist pushy businessmen in Japan when they push their damned business cards into your fingers. Primitives resist, finger, fingers, calling card, family name, one, floor 大抵(たいてい): usually, generally 抵抗(ていこう): electrical resistance, resistance, opposition Kunyomi: Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
bottom Details Story Dictionary 底 bottom Heisig's Cave . . . calling card. Koohii #1 I put all those useless business cards at the bottom of a cave. Koohii #2 In the deepest bottom of this cave complex, spelunkers leave their calling cards to prove they made it all the way. Primitives bottom, cave, calling card, family name, one, floor 根底(こんてい): root, basis, foundation 底(そこ): bottom, sole 到底(とうてい): (cannot) possibly 徹底(てってい): thoroughness, completeness Kunyomi: そこ Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 底 (そこ)	bottom 底 画数8 1975 Details Story Dictionary 底 bottom Heisig's Cave . . . calling card. Koohii #1 I put all those useless business cards at the bottom of a cave. Koohii #2 In the deepest bottom of this cave complex, spelunkers leave their calling cards to prove they made it all the way. Primitives bottom, cave, calling card, family name, one, floor 根底(こんてい): root, basis, foundation 底(そこ): bottom, sole 到底(とうてい): (cannot) possibly 徹底(てってい): thoroughness, completeness Kunyomi: そこ Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 底 (そこ)
"people Details Story Dictionary 民 people Heisig's In place of the drop at the start of the character for family name, we have a mouth, which makes you think of the ""vox populi."" Koohii #1 All the people of the world with all their family names shouting with their big mouths. Koohii #2 How many of you know what ""vox populi"" means? Primitives people, mouth, family name 移民(いみん): emigration, immigration, emigrant, immigrant 植民地(しょくみんち): colony 庶民(しょみん): masses, common people 人民(じんみん): people, public 民主(みんしゅ): democratic, the head of the nation 民宿(みんしゅく): private home providing lodging for travelers 民俗(みんぞく): people, race, nation, racial customs, folk customs 民族(みんぞく): people, race, nation, racial customs, folk customs 国民(こくみん): people, citizen 市民(しみん): citizen, townspeople 住民(じゅうみん): citizens, inhabitants, residents, population 農民(のうみん): farmers, peasants 民謡(みんよう): folk song, popular song 民間(みんかん): private, civilian, civil, popular, folk, unofficial Kunyomi: たみ Onyomi: ミン Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 民 (たみ)"	"people 民 画数5 1976 Details Story Dictionary 民 people Heisig's In place of the drop at the start of the character for family name, we have a mouth, which makes you think of the ""vox populi."" Koohii #1 All the people of the world with all their family names shouting with their big mouths. Koohii #2 How many of you know what ""vox populi"" means? Primitives people, mouth, family name 移民(いみん): emigration, immigration, emigrant, immigrant 植民地(しょくみんち): colony 庶民(しょみん): masses, common people 人民(じんみん): people, public 民主(みんしゅ): democratic, the head of the nation 民宿(みんしゅく): private home providing lodging for travelers 民俗(みんぞく): people, race, nation, racial customs, folk customs 民族(みんぞく): people, race, nation, racial customs, folk customs 国民(こくみん): people, citizen 市民(しみん): citizen, townspeople 住民(じゅうみん): citizens, inhabitants, residents, population 農民(のうみん): farmers, peasants 民謡(みんよう): folk song, popular song 民間(みんかん): private, civilian, civil, popular, folk, unofficial Kunyomi: たみ Onyomi: ミン Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 民 (たみ)"
sleep Details Story Dictionary 眠 sleep Heisig's Eyes . . . people. Koohii #1 In an Orwellian sense, the eye watching the people never sleeps. Koohii #2 The little boy from The Sixth Sense couldn´t sleep because before his very eyes he saw a dead crowd of people everywhere. Primitives sleep, eye, people, mouth, family name 冬眠(とうみん): hibernation, winter sleep 眠たい(ねむたい): sleepy 居眠り(いねむり): dozing, nodding off 睡眠(すいみん): sleep 眠い(ねむい): sleepy 眠る(ねむる): sleep Kunyomi: ねむ.る、ねむ.い Onyomi: ミン Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 眠い (ねむ.い), 眠る (ねむ.る)	sleep 眠 画数10 1977 Details Story Dictionary 眠 sleep Heisig's Eyes . . . people. Koohii #1 In an Orwellian sense, the eye watching the people never sleeps. Koohii #2 The little boy from The Sixth Sense couldn´t sleep because before his very eyes he saw a dead crowd of people everywhere. Primitives sleep, eye, people, mouth, family name 冬眠(とうみん): hibernation, winter sleep 眠たい(ねむたい): sleepy 居眠り(いねむり): dozing, nodding off 睡眠(すいみん): sleep 眠い(ねむい): sleepy 眠る(ねむる): sleep Kunyomi: ねむ.る、ねむ.い Onyomi: ミン Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 眠い (ねむ.い), 眠る (ねむ.る)
catch Details Story Dictionary 捕 catch My Story *My nigga Mo* out here, goofin around on his *unicycle* {甫}, trying to catch an elephant or some shiz Koohii #1 I was retreating from the battlefield. In the chaos, my friend threw his dogtags at me to give to his family. I managed to catch them with my fingers as the chopper was lifting off. Koohii #2 Dog tag: This is a wild animal track device. It has an arrowhead and screwdriver-shaped radio beacon. It´s evidently fired in animals to track their movements. When animal has a dog tag, it´s easy to catch it: just take a dog tag in your fingers. Primitives catch, finger, fingers, dog-tag, arrowhead, screwdriver, utilize, utilise 捕らえる(とらえる): to seize, to grasp, to capture, to arrest 捕獲(ほかく): capture, seizure 捕鯨(ほげい): whaling, whale fishing 捕吏(ほり): constable 捕虜(ほりょ): prisoner (of war) 逮捕(たいほ): arrest, apprehension, capture 捕まる(つかまる): be caught, be arrested 捕える(とらえる): seize, grasp, capture, arrest 捕る(とる): take, catch (fish), capture 捕まえる(つかまえる): catch Kunyomi: と.らえる、と.らわれる、と.る、とら.える、とら.われる、つか.まえる、つか.まる Onyomi: ホ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 捕まえる (つか.まえる), 捕まる (つか.まる), 捕らえる (と.らえる), 捕らわれる (と.らわれる), 捕る (と.る)	catch 捕 画数10 1978 Details Story Dictionary 捕 catch My Story *My nigga Mo* out here, goofin around on his *unicycle* {甫}, trying to catch an elephant or some shiz Koohii #1 I was retreating from the battlefield. In the chaos, my friend threw his dogtags at me to give to his family. I managed to catch them with my fingers as the chopper was lifting off. Koohii #2 Dog tag: This is a wild animal track device. It has an arrowhead and screwdriver-shaped radio beacon. It´s evidently fired in animals to track their movements. When animal has a dog tag, it´s easy to catch it: just take a dog tag in your fingers. Primitives catch, finger, fingers, dog-tag, arrowhead, screwdriver, utilize, utilise 捕らえる(とらえる): to seize, to grasp, to capture, to arrest 捕獲(ほかく): capture, seizure 捕鯨(ほげい): whaling, whale fishing 捕吏(ほり): constable 捕虜(ほりょ): prisoner (of war) 逮捕(たいほ): arrest, apprehension, capture 捕まる(つかまる): be caught, be arrested 捕える(とらえる): seize, grasp, capture, arrest 捕る(とる): take, catch (fish), capture 捕まえる(つかまえる): catch Kunyomi: と.らえる、と.らわれる、と.る、とら.える、とら.われる、つか.まえる、つか.まる Onyomi: ホ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 捕まえる (つか.まえる), 捕まる (つか.まる), 捕らえる (と.らえる), 捕らわれる (と.らわれる), 捕る (と.る)
suckle Details Story Dictionary 哺 suckle Heisig's Mouth . . . dog tag. Koohii #1 The scaredy-cat soldier puts his dog tags in his mouth and suckles them nervously. It sounds like he's a suckling infant. Koohii #2 suckle: this mother had heptuplets. Wow! But she had to put dog tags on the mouths of her babies to keep track of which ones had been suckled. Kunyomi: はぐく.む、 ふく.む Onyomi: ホ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	suckle 哺 画数10 1979 Details Story Dictionary 哺 suckle Heisig's Mouth . . . dog tag. Koohii #1 The scaredy-cat soldier puts his dog tags in his mouth and suckles them nervously. It sounds like he's a suckling infant. Koohii #2 suckle: this mother had heptuplets. Wow! But she had to put dog tags on the mouths of her babies to keep track of which ones had been suckled. Kunyomi: はぐく.む、 ふく.む Onyomi: ホ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
bay Details Story Dictionary 浦 bay Heisig's Water . . . dog tag. Koohii #1 The water of the bay washes all the dog tags up after the battle. Koohii #2 Otis Redding is sitting on the dock of the bay, looking over the water while clutching the dog tags of his fallen friend from Vietnam. Primitives bay, water, water droplets, water pistol, dog-tag, arrowhead, screwdriver, utilize, utilise Kunyomi: うら Onyomi: ホ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 浦 (うら)	bay 浦 画数10 1980 Details Story Dictionary 浦 bay Heisig's Water . . . dog tag. Koohii #1 The water of the bay washes all the dog tags up after the battle. Koohii #2 Otis Redding is sitting on the dock of the bay, looking over the water while clutching the dog tags of his fallen friend from Vietnam. Primitives bay, water, water droplets, water pistol, dog-tag, arrowhead, screwdriver, utilize, utilise Kunyomi: うら Onyomi: ホ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 浦 (うら)
bullrush Details Story Dictionary 蒲 bullrush Heisig's Flowers . . . bay. Koohii #1 Bulrush was the flower that you could see near almost all bays in japan before the japanese started putting concrete everywhere. Just check how many percent of Japan´s coastline that is concretised... you´ll be surprised. Koohii #2 The bulrush is a flower that grows around bays. http://www.meltonrossnewbarnetby.co.uk/images/bulrush.jpg. Primitives bulrush, flowers, bay, water, water droplets, water pistol, dog-tag, arrowhead, screwdriver, utilize, utilise Kunyomi: がま、かば、かま Onyomi: ホ、ボ、フ、ブ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:	bullrush 蒲 画数13 1981 Details Story Dictionary 蒲 bullrush Heisig's Flowers . . . bay. Koohii #1 Bulrush was the flower that you could see near almost all bays in japan before the japanese started putting concrete everywhere. Just check how many percent of Japan´s coastline that is concretised... you´ll be surprised. Koohii #2 The bulrush is a flower that grows around bays. http://www.meltonrossnewbarnetby.co.uk/images/bulrush.jpg. Primitives bulrush, flowers, bay, water, water droplets, water pistol, dog-tag, arrowhead, screwdriver, utilize, utilise Kunyomi: がま、かば、かま Onyomi: ホ、ボ、フ、ブ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:
shop Details Story Dictionary 舗 shop Heisig's Cottage . . . dog tag. The key word refers to the noun, not the verb. Koohii #1 A shop in an impoverished country is just a cottage with a dog tag identifying it. Koohii #2 Normal cottages (舎 actually means a building) don´t have tags advertising their names, but shops do. Primitives shop, cottage, little-thatch, umbrella, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, dog-tag, arrowhead, screwdriver, utilize, utilise 舗装(ほそう): pavement, road surface Kunyomi: Onyomi: ホ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	shop 舗 画数15 1982 Details Story Dictionary 舗 shop Heisig's Cottage . . . dog tag. The key word refers to the noun, not the verb. Koohii #1 A shop in an impoverished country is just a cottage with a dog tag identifying it. Koohii #2 Normal cottages (舎 actually means a building) don´t have tags advertising their names, but shops do. Primitives shop, cottage, little-thatch, umbrella, earthenware jar, lidded crock, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, dog-tag, arrowhead, screwdriver, utilize, utilise 舗装(ほそう): pavement, road surface Kunyomi: Onyomi: ホ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"supplement Details Story Dictionary 補 supplement Heisig's Cloak . . . dog tag. Koohii #1 I usually hear supplement in ""dietry supplement"". So you´re given a cloak for extra fibre and dogtags for extra iron. Keeps you regular and stops you feeling tired and run-down. Koohii #2 The name and number printed on a soldier´s cloak is a supplement to his main I.D. tag; his dog-tag, in helping identify the soldier. Primitives supplement, cloak, dog-tag, arrowhead, screwdriver, utilize, utilise 補給(ほきゅう): supply, supplying, replenishment 補強(ほきょう): compensation, reinforcement 補充(ほじゅう): supplementation, supplement, replenishment, replenishing 補助(ほじょ): assistance, support, aid, auxiliary 補償(ほしょう): compensation, reparation 補足(ほそく): supplement, complement 補う(おぎなう): compensate for 候補(こうほ): candidacy Kunyomi: おぎな.う Onyomi: ホ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 補う (おぎな.う)"	"supplement 補 画数12 1983 Details Story Dictionary 補 supplement Heisig's Cloak . . . dog tag. Koohii #1 I usually hear supplement in ""dietry supplement"". So you´re given a cloak for extra fibre and dogtags for extra iron. Keeps you regular and stops you feeling tired and run-down. Koohii #2 The name and number printed on a soldier´s cloak is a supplement to his main I.D. tag; his dog-tag, in helping identify the soldier. Primitives supplement, cloak, dog-tag, arrowhead, screwdriver, utilize, utilise 補給(ほきゅう): supply, supplying, replenishment 補強(ほきょう): compensation, reinforcement 補充(ほじゅう): supplementation, supplement, replenishment, replenishing 補助(ほじょ): assistance, support, aid, auxiliary 補償(ほしょう): compensation, reparation 補足(ほそく): supplement, complement 補う(おぎなう): compensate for 候補(こうほ): candidacy Kunyomi: おぎな.う Onyomi: ホ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 補う (おぎな.う)"
residence Details Story Dictionary 邸 residence Heisig's Calling card . . . city walls. Koohii #1 The business card says his residence is just to the left of the city walls. Can you find it? Yep, got it. Koohii #2 So fed up am I, I´ve finally built city walls around my residence to keep these Japanese from soliciting me with their business cards. Primitives residence, calling card, family name, one, floor, city walls 邸宅(ていたく): mansion, residence Kunyomi: やしき Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	residence 邸 画数8 1984 Details Story Dictionary 邸 residence Heisig's Calling card . . . city walls. Koohii #1 The business card says his residence is just to the left of the city walls. Can you find it? Yep, got it. Koohii #2 So fed up am I, I´ve finally built city walls around my residence to keep these Japanese from soliciting me with their business cards. Primitives residence, calling card, family name, one, floor, city walls 邸宅(ていたく): mansion, residence Kunyomi: やしき Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
enclosure Details Story Dictionary 郭 enclosure Heisig's Receive . . . city walls. Koohii #1 The city finally received the enclosure that it desperately needed, city walls to protect it against attacks from the tall kids. Koohii #2 Even the tall kids can´t get out of the enclosure that is the city walls. Primitives enclosure, receive, tall, top hat, mouth, child, children, city walls Kunyomi: くるわ Onyomi: カク Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	enclosure 郭 画数11 1985 Details Story Dictionary 郭 enclosure Heisig's Receive . . . city walls. Koohii #1 The city finally received the enclosure that it desperately needed, city walls to protect it against attacks from the tall kids. Koohii #2 Even the tall kids can´t get out of the enclosure that is the city walls. Primitives enclosure, receive, tall, top hat, mouth, child, children, city walls Kunyomi: くるわ Onyomi: カク Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
county Details Story Dictionary 郡 county Heisig's Old boy . . . city walls. Koohii #1 The old boy had never been outside of his own county because he couldn't get over the city walls. Koohii #2 The old boys of Hazard COUNTY never got past the city walls. Primitives county, old boy, mop, mouth, city walls 郡(ぐん): country, district Kunyomi: こうり Onyomi: グン Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	county 郡 画数10 1986 Details Story Dictionary 郡 county Heisig's Old boy . . . city walls. Koohii #1 The old boy had never been outside of his own county because he couldn't get over the city walls. Koohii #2 The old boys of Hazard COUNTY never got past the city walls. Primitives county, old boy, mop, mouth, city walls 郡(ぐん): country, district Kunyomi: こうり Onyomi: グン Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
outskirts Details Story Dictionary 郊 outskirts Heisig's Mingle . . . city walls. Koohii #1 The country folk and and the city folk mingle at the outskirts of town, just past the city walls. Koohii #2 The city walls mark the outskirts of the inner city, where it begins to mingle with the suburbs. Primitives outskirts, mingle, top hat, father, city walls 近郊(きんこう): suburbs, outskirts 郊外(こうがい): suburbs Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	outskirts 郊 画数9 1987 Details Story Dictionary 郊 outskirts Heisig's Mingle . . . city walls. Koohii #1 The country folk and and the city folk mingle at the outskirts of town, just past the city walls. Koohii #2 The city walls mark the outskirts of the inner city, where it begins to mingle with the suburbs. Primitives outskirts, mingle, top hat, father, city walls 近郊(きんこう): suburbs, outskirts 郊外(こうがい): suburbs Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
section Details Story Dictionary 部 section My Story A section of that *town* is *double the amount* of paris Koohii #1 Within the city walls, this section of town was so noisy that we had to muzzle them up. Koohii #2 The section within the city walls where dogs must be muzzled by law... RTK2:　へ　部屋　へや(room)...　　　　ブ　全部　ぜんぶ(all). Primitives section, muzzle, vase, stand up, mouth, city walls 一部(いちぶ): one copy e.g. of a document, a part, partly, some 一部分(いちぶぶん): a part 幹部(かんぶ): management, (executive) staff, leaders 警部(けいぶ): police inspector 大部(たいぶ): most (e.g. most part), greater, fairly, a good deal, much 内部(ないぶ): interior, inside, internal 部(ぶ): department, part, category, counter for copies of a newspaper or magazine 部下(ぶか): subordinate person 部門(ぶもん): class, group, category, department, field, branch 外部(がいぶ): the outside, external 学部(がくぶ): department of a university, undergraduate 大部分(だいぶぶん): most part, greater part, majority 部首(ぶしゅ): radical of a kanji 部品(ぶひん): parts, accessories 部分(ぶぶん): portion, section, part 本部(ほんぶ): headquarters 全部(ぜんぶ): all, entire, whole, altogether 部屋(へや): room Kunyomi: -べ Onyomi: ブ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	section 部 画数11 1988 Details Story Dictionary 部 section My Story A section of that *town* is *double the amount* of paris Koohii #1 Within the city walls, this section of town was so noisy that we had to muzzle them up. Koohii #2 The section within the city walls where dogs must be muzzled by law... RTK2:　へ　部屋　へや(room)...　　　　ブ　全部　ぜんぶ(all). Primitives section, muzzle, vase, stand up, mouth, city walls 一部(いちぶ): one copy e.g. of a document, a part, partly, some 一部分(いちぶぶん): a part 幹部(かんぶ): management, (executive) staff, leaders 警部(けいぶ): police inspector 大部(たいぶ): most (e.g. most part), greater, fairly, a good deal, much 内部(ないぶ): interior, inside, internal 部(ぶ): department, part, category, counter for copies of a newspaper or magazine 部下(ぶか): subordinate person 部門(ぶもん): class, group, category, department, field, branch 外部(がいぶ): the outside, external 学部(がくぶ): department of a university, undergraduate 大部分(だいぶぶん): most part, greater part, majority 部首(ぶしゅ): radical of a kanji 部品(ぶひん): parts, accessories 部分(ぶぶん): portion, section, part 本部(ほんぶ): headquarters 全部(ぜんぶ): all, entire, whole, altogether 部屋(へや): room Kunyomi: -べ Onyomi: ブ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
metropolis Details Story Dictionary 都 metropolis My Story A *ninja* climbs the metropolis walls to infiltrate the right-side *village* Koohii #1 In a metropolis people are just puppets inside city walls, there is no individuality if you live so close together. Koohii #2 A vision of a futuristic METROPOLIS: standing at the window of your 400th floor apartment, hand in hand with your LOVE DOLL, gazing out at the gigantic CITY WALLS that you can never escape. Primitives metropolis, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day, city walls 首都(しゅと): capital city 都(と): metropolitan, municipal 都会(とかい): city 都市(とし): town, city, municipal, urban 都心(としん): heart of city 都(みやこ): capital 都合(つごう): circumstances, convenience Kunyomi: みやこ Onyomi: ト、ツ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 都会 (とかい), 都心 (としん), 首都 (しゅと), 都 (みやこ)	metropolis 都 画数11 1989 Details Story Dictionary 都 metropolis My Story A *ninja* climbs the metropolis walls to infiltrate the right-side *village* Koohii #1 In a metropolis people are just puppets inside city walls, there is no individuality if you live so close together. Koohii #2 A vision of a futuristic METROPOLIS: standing at the window of your 400th floor apartment, hand in hand with your LOVE DOLL, gazing out at the gigantic CITY WALLS that you can never escape. Primitives metropolis, someone, puppet, sooty, old man, sun, day, city walls 首都(しゅと): capital city 都(と): metropolitan, municipal 都会(とかい): city 都市(とし): town, city, municipal, urban 都心(としん): heart of city 都(みやこ): capital 都合(つごう): circumstances, convenience Kunyomi: みやこ Onyomi: ト、ツ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 都会 (とかい), 都心 (としん), 首都 (しゅと), 都 (みやこ)
"mail Details Story Dictionary 郵 mail Heisig's Droop . . . city walls. Koohii #1 The drooping citywalls was generating a lot of angry mail for the city officials. Hint: think ""hate mail"" and you will remember this one. [thx CharleyGarrett]. Koohii #2 The city walls droop down in one spot so that the mailtman can throw the mail over. Primitives mail, droop, silage, city walls 郵送(ゆうそう): mailing 郵便(ゆうびん): mail, postal service 郵便局(ゆうびんきょく): post office Kunyomi: Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"mail 郵 画数11 1990 Details Story Dictionary 郵 mail Heisig's Droop . . . city walls. Koohii #1 The drooping citywalls was generating a lot of angry mail for the city officials. Hint: think ""hate mail"" and you will remember this one. [thx CharleyGarrett]. Koohii #2 The city walls droop down in one spot so that the mailtman can throw the mail over. Primitives mail, droop, silage, city walls 郵送(ゆうそう): mailing 郵便(ゆうびん): mail, postal service 郵便局(ゆうびんきょく): post office Kunyomi: Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
"home country Details Story Dictionary 邦 home country Heisig's Bushes . . . city walls. Koohii #1 He reminisced about his home country: ""Ah, back in my home country, the bushes grew so high that they covered the city walls!"". Koohii #2 It's easier if you think of the USA as the HOME COUNTRY. To the northern border you have it protected by BUSHES, while to south you have it protected by CITY WALLS (or a 800 mile long fence). Primitives home country, bushes, city walls 連邦(れんぽう): commonwealth, federation of states Kunyomi: くに Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"home country 邦 画数7 1991 Details Story Dictionary 邦 home country Heisig's Bushes . . . city walls. Koohii #1 He reminisced about his home country: ""Ah, back in my home country, the bushes grew so high that they covered the city walls!"". Koohii #2 It's easier if you think of the USA as the HOME COUNTRY. To the northern border you have it protected by BUSHES, while to south you have it protected by CITY WALLS (or a 800 mile long fence). Primitives home country, bushes, city walls 連邦(れんぽう): commonwealth, federation of states Kunyomi: くに Onyomi: ホウ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"interrogative Details Story Dictionary 那 interrogative My Story Cop gives you an interrogative stare and asks: ""Do you have a DAGGER {刀} or TWO {二}? You are entering the SLUM {阝}, you know."" Koohii #1 If you arrive with two swords at the city walls, expect some interrogatives before they´ll let you in. Koohii #2 Interrogation at the city walls: ""Any weapons, question mark."" ""Just a blade."" ""Why the two scratches on the blade, question mark."" ""To remind me that I cut off my other ear too, exclamation mark (exclamation (#2680))."". Primitives interrogative, sword, dagger, two, city walls 旦那(だんな): master (of house), husband (informal) Kunyomi: なに、なんぞ、いかん Onyomi: ナ、ダ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"interrogative 那 画数7 1992 Details Story Dictionary 那 interrogative My Story Cop gives you an interrogative stare and asks: ""Do you have a DAGGER {刀} or TWO {二}? You are entering the SLUM {阝}, you know."" Koohii #1 If you arrive with two swords at the city walls, expect some interrogatives before they´ll let you in. Koohii #2 Interrogation at the city walls: ""Any weapons, question mark."" ""Just a blade."" ""Why the two scratches on the blade, question mark."" ""To remind me that I cut off my other ear too, exclamation mark (exclamation (#2680))."". Primitives interrogative, sword, dagger, two, city walls 旦那(だんな): master (of house), husband (informal) Kunyomi: なに、なんぞ、いかん Onyomi: ナ、ダ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
hometown Details Story Dictionary 郷 hometown My Story *Eazy E* left the his hometown to for *silver*, the new *town* was way richer Eazy E: looks like an E Koohii #1 Your hometown is where you broke out of your cocoon (born), and where you left when your hair was silver (died), your whole life was spent inside the city walls. Koohii #2 Your home town is where you earned enough silver to enable you to break out of your giant cocoon (leave home) and explore outside the city walls. Primitives home town, cocoon, silver, city walls 郷愁(きょうしゅう): nostalgia, homesickness 郷里(きょうり): birth-place, home town 故郷(こきょう): home town, birthplace, old or historic village Kunyomi: さと Onyomi: キョウ、ゴウ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 郷里 (きょうり), 郷土 (きょうど), 異郷 (いきょう)	hometown 郷 画数11 1993 Details Story Dictionary 郷 hometown My Story *Eazy E* left the his hometown to for *silver*, the new *town* was way richer Eazy E: looks like an E Koohii #1 Your hometown is where you broke out of your cocoon (born), and where you left when your hair was silver (died), your whole life was spent inside the city walls. Koohii #2 Your home town is where you earned enough silver to enable you to break out of your giant cocoon (leave home) and explore outside the city walls. Primitives home town, cocoon, silver, city walls 郷愁(きょうしゅう): nostalgia, homesickness 郷里(きょうり): birth-place, home town 故郷(こきょう): home town, birthplace, old or historic village Kunyomi: さと Onyomi: キョウ、ゴウ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 郷里 (きょうり), 郷土 (きょうど), 異郷 (いきょう)
echo Details Story Dictionary 響 echo Heisig's Hometown . . . sound. Koohii #1 People´s voices are like echoes of sounds from their hometowns....you can always tell where they´re from by how they talk. Koohii #2 My hometown is a ghost town, any sounds echoes and echoes. Primitives echo, home town, cocoon, silver, city walls, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, tongue wagging 反響(はんきょう): echo, reverberation, repercussion, reaction, influence 影響(えいきょう): influence, effect 響き(ひびき): echo, sound, reverberation, noise 響く(ひびく): to sound, echo, reverberate Kunyomi: ひび.く Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 響く (ひび.く)	echo 響 画数20 1994 Details Story Dictionary 響 echo Heisig's Hometown . . . sound. Koohii #1 People´s voices are like echoes of sounds from their hometowns....you can always tell where they´re from by how they talk. Koohii #2 My hometown is a ghost town, any sounds echoes and echoes. Primitives echo, home town, cocoon, silver, city walls, sound, vase, stand up, sun, day, tongue wagging 反響(はんきょう): echo, reverberation, repercussion, reaction, influence 影響(えいきょう): influence, effect 響き(ひびき): echo, sound, reverberation, noise 響く(ひびく): to sound, echo, reverberate Kunyomi: ひび.く Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 響く (ひび.く)
son Details Story Dictionary 郎 son Heisig's Halo . . . city walls. Koohii #1 The daughter is a good girl that grows up to be a woman. The son is a good boy that grows up to defend the city walls. Koohii #2 A good son stays within the city walls so he can care for his parents…　RTK2:　ロウ　新郎　しんろう(bridegroom)…　Pure Group:　廊1852. Primitives son, halo, good, drop, silver, city walls Kunyomi: おとこ Onyomi: ロウ、リョウ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	son 郎 画数9 1995 Details Story Dictionary 郎 son Heisig's Halo . . . city walls. Koohii #1 The daughter is a good girl that grows up to be a woman. The son is a good boy that grows up to defend the city walls. Koohii #2 A good son stays within the city walls so he can care for his parents…　RTK2:　ロウ　新郎　しんろう(bridegroom)…　Pure Group:　廊1852. Primitives son, halo, good, drop, silver, city walls Kunyomi: おとこ Onyomi: ロウ、リョウ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
corridor Details Story Dictionary 廊 corridor My Story Your SON {郎} plays in the CAVE {广}, pretending he's exploring a corridor. Wait a minute... Koohii #1 Your son plays in the corridor pretending he´s exploring a cave. Koohii #2 (ロウ) I think of the corridor found in the cave that Yoda made Luke Skywalker walk through as part of his Jedi training in Empire Strikes Back. It was in this corridor that Luke met Darth Vadar, cut off his head and found himself behind Darth Vadar´s mask. An early little hint that Luke was Darth Vadar´s son. Primitives corridor, cave, son, halo, good, drop, silver, city walls 廊下(ろうか): corridor Kunyomi: Onyomi: ロウ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	corridor 廊 画数12 1996 Details Story Dictionary 廊 corridor My Story Your SON {郎} plays in the CAVE {广}, pretending he's exploring a corridor. Wait a minute... Koohii #1 Your son plays in the corridor pretending he´s exploring a cave. Koohii #2 (ロウ) I think of the corridor found in the cave that Yoda made Luke Skywalker walk through as part of his Jedi training in Empire Strikes Back. It was in this corridor that Luke met Darth Vadar, cut off his head and found himself behind Darth Vadar´s mask. An early little hint that Luke was Darth Vadar´s son. Primitives corridor, cave, son, halo, good, drop, silver, city walls 廊下(ろうか): corridor Kunyomi: Onyomi: ロウ Lesson: 49 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"shield Details Story Dictionary 盾 shield Heisig's Dragging . . . ten eyes. Koohii #1 You paint 10 huge eyes on your shield to scare the enemy, but consequently your shield is so big and heavy that you have to drag it. Koohii #2 From Wikipedia: ""If a Spartan hoplite were to return to Sparta alive and without his shield, it was assumed that he threw his shield at the enemy in an effort to flee; an act punishable by death or banishment."" Picture the enemy of a Spartan soldier poking his eyes out with a sewing needle and trying to steal his shield. However, the Spartan desperately clutches on, and is dragged around for a while, preferring to die than to lose his shield. Primitives shield, drag, ten, needle, eye 盾(たて): shield, buckler, escutcheon, pretext 矛盾(むじゅん): contradiction, inconsistency Kunyomi: たて Onyomi: ジュン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 盾 (たて)"	"shield 盾 画数9 1997 Details Story Dictionary 盾 shield Heisig's Dragging . . . ten eyes. Koohii #1 You paint 10 huge eyes on your shield to scare the enemy, but consequently your shield is so big and heavy that you have to drag it. Koohii #2 From Wikipedia: ""If a Spartan hoplite were to return to Sparta alive and without his shield, it was assumed that he threw his shield at the enemy in an effort to flee; an act punishable by death or banishment."" Picture the enemy of a Spartan soldier poking his eyes out with a sewing needle and trying to steal his shield. However, the Spartan desperately clutches on, and is dragged around for a while, preferring to die than to lose his shield. Primitives shield, drag, ten, needle, eye 盾(たて): shield, buckler, escutcheon, pretext 矛盾(むじゅん): contradiction, inconsistency Kunyomi: たて Onyomi: ジュン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 盾 (たて)"
"sequential Details Story Dictionary 循 sequential Heisig's Line . . . shield. Koohii #1 This is mostly used in the word 循環, ""circulation"" (of buses through their routes, of blood, etc). So I think of a column of little Roman soldiers with their shields marching sequentially through the veins of a person, as an anthropomorphization of the immune system. Koohii #2 A column of shielded soldiers advancing sequentially to avoid revealing the size of their army (Think ""Sandpeople always ride single file to hide their numbers"" from Star Wars). Primitives sequential, Nelson, column, going, line, shield, drag, ten, needle, eye 循環(じゅんかん): circulation, rotation, cycle Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジュン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"sequential 循 画数12 1998 Details Story Dictionary 循 sequential Heisig's Line . . . shield. Koohii #1 This is mostly used in the word 循環, ""circulation"" (of buses through their routes, of blood, etc). So I think of a column of little Roman soldiers with their shields marching sequentially through the veins of a person, as an anthropomorphization of the immune system. Koohii #2 A column of shielded soldiers advancing sequentially to avoid revealing the size of their army (Think ""Sandpeople always ride single file to hide their numbers"" from Star Wars). Primitives sequential, Nelson, column, going, line, shield, drag, ten, needle, eye 循環(じゅんかん): circulation, rotation, cycle Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジュン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
faction Details Story Dictionary 派 faction My Story That faction wants to hitchhike to the *water*, but our faction wants to *hitch* (hitchhike) a ride to the *cliff*. Koohii #1 Drag + rag gave me trouble until I came up with zombie for it. The zombie population became more diverse, separating into different factions. One of them being the water Zombies. Koohii #2 The radical faction is almost eliminated, sir. They´re living in the sewers dressed in rags and dragging their supplies. Primitives faction, water, water droplets, water pistol, caveman, drag, person, rag 特派(とくは): send specially, special envoy 派(は): clique, faction, school 派遣(はけん): dispatch, send 派手(はで): showy, loud, gay, flashy, gaudy 立派(りっぱ): splendid, fine, handsome, elegant, imposing, prominent, legal, legitimate Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	faction 派 画数9 1999 Details Story Dictionary 派 faction My Story That faction wants to hitchhike to the *water*, but our faction wants to *hitch* (hitchhike) a ride to the *cliff*. Koohii #1 Drag + rag gave me trouble until I came up with zombie for it. The zombie population became more diverse, separating into different factions. One of them being the water Zombies. Koohii #2 The radical faction is almost eliminated, sir. They´re living in the sewers dressed in rags and dragging their supplies. Primitives faction, water, water droplets, water pistol, caveman, drag, person, rag 特派(とくは): send specially, special envoy 派(は): clique, faction, school 派遣(はけん): dispatch, send 派手(はで): showy, loud, gay, flashy, gaudy 立派(りっぱ): splendid, fine, handsome, elegant, imposing, prominent, legal, legitimate Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
vein Details Story Dictionary 脈 vein Heisig's Part of body . . . drag . . . rag. Koohii #1 The vein is the part of the body most lusted after by the flesh hungry zombies (drag & rag - see revenantkioku frame 1855). Koohii #2 To get blood drawn from a vein you present the part of the body to the nurse, and they drag an alcohol swab (rag) across the vein. Primitives vein, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, caveman, drag, person, rag 山脈(さんみゃく): mountain range 脈(みゃく): pulse 文脈(ぶんみゃく): context Kunyomi: すじ Onyomi: ミャク Lesson: 50 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	vein 脈 画数10 2000 Details Story Dictionary 脈 vein Heisig's Part of body . . . drag . . . rag. Koohii #1 The vein is the part of the body most lusted after by the flesh hungry zombies (drag & rag - see revenantkioku frame 1855). Koohii #2 To get blood drawn from a vein you present the part of the body to the nurse, and they drag an alcohol swab (rag) across the vein. Primitives vein, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, caveman, drag, person, rag 山脈(さんみゃく): mountain range 脈(みゃく): pulse 文脈(ぶんみゃく): context Kunyomi: すじ Onyomi: ミャク Lesson: 50 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
masses Details Story Dictionary 衆 masses Heisig's Blood . . . drag . . . rag. Koohii #1 Masses of zombies, splattered with blood. (any zombie movie). Koohii #2 When the masses are hurt, say in a natural disaster like an earthquake, they can be seen everywhere dragging their bloody rags. Primitives masses, blood, drop, dish, Carol in rags person, rag, drop3 観衆(かんしゅう): spectators, onlookers, members of the audience 衆(しゅう): masses, great number, the people 衆議院(しゅうぎいん): Lower House, House of Representatives 大衆(たいしゅう): general public 公衆(こうしゅう): the public Kunyomi: おお.い Onyomi: シュウ、シュ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 衆寡 (しゅうか), 民衆 (みんしゅう), 聴衆 (ちょうしゅう)	masses 衆 画数12 2001 Details Story Dictionary 衆 masses Heisig's Blood . . . drag . . . rag. Koohii #1 Masses of zombies, splattered with blood. (any zombie movie). Koohii #2 When the masses are hurt, say in a natural disaster like an earthquake, they can be seen everywhere dragging their bloody rags. Primitives masses, blood, drop, dish, Carol in rags person, rag, drop3 観衆(かんしゅう): spectators, onlookers, members of the audience 衆(しゅう): masses, great number, the people 衆議院(しゅうぎいん): Lower House, House of Representatives 大衆(たいしゅう): general public 公衆(こうしゅう): the public Kunyomi: おお.い Onyomi: シュウ、シュ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 衆寡 (しゅうか), 民衆 (みんしゅう), 聴衆 (ちょうしゅう)
parcel post Details Story Dictionary 逓 parcel post Heisig's Drag . . . cornstalk . . . belt . . . road. Koohii #1 Picture a crude drag-sled - in this case, made from cornstalks that have been belted together - filled with parcels, that the postman drags along behind him down the road along his delivery route. Koohii #2 (I prefer 2 towels over cornstalk and belt) - Have you ever wondered why your parcels always end up in such bad condition when you get them? Or why you never get them at all? That´s because you´ve never looked at how they´re actually delivered - each postman is given a load of parcel post and 2 towels to drag them down the road on. Primitives parcel post, drag, cornstalk, belt, road Kunyomi: かわ.る、たがいに Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	parcel post 逓 画数10 2002 Details Story Dictionary 逓 parcel post Heisig's Drag . . . cornstalk . . . belt . . . road. Koohii #1 Picture a crude drag-sled - in this case, made from cornstalks that have been belted together - filled with parcels, that the postman drags along behind him down the road along his delivery route. Koohii #2 (I prefer 2 towels over cornstalk and belt) - Have you ever wondered why your parcels always end up in such bad condition when you get them? Or why you never get them at all? That´s because you´ve never looked at how they´re actually delivered - each postman is given a load of parcel post and 2 towels to drag them down the road on. Primitives parcel post, drag, cornstalk, belt, road Kunyomi: かわ.る、たがいに Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
grade Details Story Dictionary 段 grade Heisig's The kanji connoting rank or class shows us a new element on the left: the familiar primitive for staples with an additional stroke cutting through the vertical stroke. It is easiest in these cases to make a primitive related to what we already know. Hence, we call it a staple gun. To the right, missile. Koohii #1 This is a military-grade staple gun! It can be loaded with real missiles. Koohii #2 1st grade: staple gun, 9th grade: missiles. Primitives grade, staple gun, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 段々(だんだん): gradually, by degrees 値段(ねだん): price, cost 一段と(いちだんと): greater, more, further, still more 手段(しゅだん): means, way, measure 段(だん): step, stair, flight of steps, grade, rank, level 段階(だんかい): gradation, grade, stage 普段(ふだん): usually, habitually, ordinarily, always 階段(かいだん): stairs Kunyomi: Onyomi: ダン、タン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	grade 段 画数9 2003 Details Story Dictionary 段 grade Heisig's The kanji connoting rank or class shows us a new element on the left: the familiar primitive for staples with an additional stroke cutting through the vertical stroke. It is easiest in these cases to make a primitive related to what we already know. Hence, we call it a staple gun. To the right, missile. Koohii #1 This is a military-grade staple gun! It can be loaded with real missiles. Koohii #2 1st grade: staple gun, 9th grade: missiles. Primitives grade, staple gun, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 段々(だんだん): gradually, by degrees 値段(ねだん): price, cost 一段と(いちだんと): greater, more, further, still more 手段(しゅだん): means, way, measure 段(だん): step, stair, flight of steps, grade, rank, level 段階(だんかい): gradation, grade, stage 普段(ふだん): usually, habitually, ordinarily, always 階段(かいだん): stairs Kunyomi: Onyomi: ダン、タン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
forge Details Story Dictionary 鍛 forge Heisig's Metal . . . grade. Koohii #1 As a discriminating metalsmith, I use the highest grade metals when forging such precision devices as staple guns and missiles. Koohii #2 Metal has to be forged many times over in order to reach a high grade. Primitives forge, metal, gold, grade, staple gun, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 鍛える(きたえる): to forge, to drill, to temper, to train, to discipline Kunyomi: きた.える Onyomi: タン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鍛える (きた.える)	forge 鍛 画数17 2004 Details Story Dictionary 鍛 forge Heisig's Metal . . . grade. Koohii #1 As a discriminating metalsmith, I use the highest grade metals when forging such precision devices as staple guns and missiles. Koohii #2 Metal has to be forged many times over in order to reach a high grade. Primitives forge, metal, gold, grade, staple gun, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 鍛える(きたえる): to forge, to drill, to temper, to train, to discipline Kunyomi: きた.える Onyomi: タン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鍛える (きた.える)
empress Details Story Dictionary 后 empress Heisig's Drag . . . one . . . mouth. Koohii #1 The empress is cruel. Normally she´ll violently pull her servants by the ear when they´ve failed to follow orders. But one time she dragged this one guy around the palace by the mouth. She must have been really angry—ever since that moment, he´s never been seen again. Koohii #2 The F word often comes out of the mouth of the empress. Primitives empress, drag, one, ceiling, mouth Kunyomi: きさき Onyomi: コウ、ゴ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	empress 后 画数6 2005 Details Story Dictionary 后 empress Heisig's Drag . . . one . . . mouth. Koohii #1 The empress is cruel. Normally she´ll violently pull her servants by the ear when they´ve failed to follow orders. But one time she dragged this one guy around the palace by the mouth. She must have been really angry—ever since that moment, he´s never been seen again. Koohii #2 The F word often comes out of the mouth of the empress. Primitives empress, drag, one, ceiling, mouth Kunyomi: きさき Onyomi: コウ、ゴ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
phantasm Details Story Dictionary 幻 phantasm Heisig's Cocoon . . . clothes hanger. Koohii #1 After the play, The Phantasm of the Opera hangs up his cape on a clothes hanger and returns to his cocoon to sleep. Koohii #2 You open your closet and find strange, glowing cocoons sitting on your clothes hangers... definitely a phantasm! Primitives phantasm, cocoon, clothes hanger, coat hanger Kunyomi: まぼろし Onyomi: ゲン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 幻 (まぼろし)	phantasm 幻 画数4 2006 Details Story Dictionary 幻 phantasm Heisig's Cocoon . . . clothes hanger. Koohii #1 After the play, The Phantasm of the Opera hangs up his cape on a clothes hanger and returns to his cocoon to sleep. Koohii #2 You open your closet and find strange, glowing cocoons sitting on your clothes hangers... definitely a phantasm! Primitives phantasm, cocoon, clothes hanger, coat hanger Kunyomi: まぼろし Onyomi: ゲン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 幻 (まぼろし)
"director Details Story Dictionary 司 director Heisig's Clothes hanger . . . one . . . mouth. Koohii #1 The porn director has one big mouth. ""Don´t bother putting your clothes on a hanger, just get started."". Koohii #2 The director sticks a clothes hanger in each actor´s mouth and hangs them from the ceiling until he needs them. Primitives director, clothes hanger, coat hanger, one, mouth 司法(しほう): administration of justice 上司(じょうし): superior authorities, boss 司る(つかさどる): to rule, to govern, to administer 司会(しかい): chairmanship Kunyomi: つかさど.る Onyomi: シ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"director 司 画数5 2007 Details Story Dictionary 司 director Heisig's Clothes hanger . . . one . . . mouth. Koohii #1 The porn director has one big mouth. ""Don´t bother putting your clothes on a hanger, just get started."". Koohii #2 The director sticks a clothes hanger in each actor´s mouth and hangs them from the ceiling until he needs them. Primitives director, clothes hanger, coat hanger, one, mouth 司法(しほう): administration of justice 上司(じょうし): superior authorities, boss 司る(つかさどる): to rule, to govern, to administer 司会(しかい): chairmanship Kunyomi: つかさど.る Onyomi: シ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
pay respects Details Story Dictionary 伺 pay respects Heisig's This honorific form of call on (Frame 534) is made up of: person . . . director. Koohii #1 That person, being the director, is someone you need to pay your respects to. Koohii #2 If Mr. T gets a role in a film, he doesnt pay respects to the director, the director pays respects to Mr. T. Primitives pay respects, person, director, Ken Russel, clothes hanger, coat hanger, one, mouth 伺う(うかがう): (polite) visit, ask, inquire, hear, be told, implore (a god for an oracle) Kunyomi: うかが.う Onyomi: シ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 伺う (うかが.う)	pay respects 伺 画数7 2008 Details Story Dictionary 伺 pay respects Heisig's This honorific form of call on (Frame 534) is made up of: person . . . director. Koohii #1 That person, being the director, is someone you need to pay your respects to. Koohii #2 If Mr. T gets a role in a film, he doesnt pay respects to the director, the director pays respects to Mr. T. Primitives pay respects, person, director, Ken Russel, clothes hanger, coat hanger, one, mouth 伺う(うかがう): (polite) visit, ask, inquire, hear, be told, implore (a god for an oracle) Kunyomi: うかが.う Onyomi: シ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 伺う (うかが.う)
"parts of speech Details Story Dictionary 詞 parts of speech My Story Words audition with the director for parts of speech. Koohii #1 Parts of speech act as word directors, giving it meaning and indicating its correct placement and usage in grammar. Koohii #2 The big mouthed diretor is even picky about the parts of speech you use, shouting, ""More verbs! Less adjectives!"" and such all the time. Primitives part of speech, say, words, keitai, mouth, director, Ken Russel, clothes hanger, coat hanger, one, mouth, mouth2 自動詞(じどうし): intransitive verb (no direct obj) 助詞(じょし): particle, postposition 助動詞(じょどうし): auxiliary verb 数詞(すうし): numeral 接続詞(せつぞくし): conjunction 他動詞(たどうし): transitive verb (direct obj) 形容詞(けいようし): ""true"" adjective 形容動詞(けいようどうし): adjectival noun, quasi-adjective 代名詞(だいめいし): pronoun 動詞(どうし): verb 副詞(ふくし): adverb 名詞(めいし): noun Kunyomi: Onyomi: シ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"parts of speech 詞 画数12 2009 Details Story Dictionary 詞 parts of speech My Story Words audition with the director for parts of speech. Koohii #1 Parts of speech act as word directors, giving it meaning and indicating its correct placement and usage in grammar. Koohii #2 The big mouthed diretor is even picky about the parts of speech you use, shouting, ""More verbs! Less adjectives!"" and such all the time. Primitives part of speech, say, words, keitai, mouth, director, Ken Russel, clothes hanger, coat hanger, one, mouth, mouth2 自動詞(じどうし): intransitive verb (no direct obj) 助詞(じょし): particle, postposition 助動詞(じょどうし): auxiliary verb 数詞(すうし): numeral 接続詞(せつぞくし): conjunction 他動詞(たどうし): transitive verb (direct obj) 形容詞(けいようし): ""true"" adjective 形容動詞(けいようどうし): adjectival noun, quasi-adjective 代名詞(だいめいし): pronoun 動詞(どうし): verb 副詞(ふくし): adverb 名詞(めいし): noun Kunyomi: Onyomi: シ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
domesticate Details Story Dictionary 飼 domesticate Heisig's Eat . . . director. The sense is of rearing of animals. Koohii #1 When you DOMESTICATE a animal, you are the DIRECTOR of it´s life and what it EATS. Koohii #2 After a pride of hungry lions ate the director, the producer decided to tone down his documentary and film domesticated cats instead. Primitives domesticate, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, director, Ken Russel, clothes hanger, coat hanger, one, mouth 飼育(しいく): breeding, raising, rearing 飼う(かう): keep, raise, feed Kunyomi: か.う Onyomi: シ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 飼う (か.う)	domesticate 飼 画数13 2010 Details Story Dictionary 飼 domesticate Heisig's Eat . . . director. The sense is of rearing of animals. Koohii #1 When you DOMESTICATE a animal, you are the DIRECTOR of it´s life and what it EATS. Koohii #2 After a pride of hungry lions ate the director, the producer decided to tone down his documentary and film domesticated cats instead. Primitives domesticate, eat, food, umbrella, good, halo, drop, silver, director, Ken Russel, clothes hanger, coat hanger, one, mouth 飼育(しいく): breeding, raising, rearing 飼う(かう): keep, raise, feed Kunyomi: か.う Onyomi: シ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 飼う (か.う)
heir Details Story Dictionary 嗣 heir Heisig's Mouth . . . scrapbook . . . director. Koohii #1 The lawyer called all the heirs into a meeting. Everybody else received cars, property, and the like. When it got to be my turn the lawyer informed me I would be receiving a scrapbook. My mouth dropped open. A scrapbook?! No Ferrari, no mansion, ...scrapbook?! Turns out the scrapbook was of my great uncle's company, and I had been named the new director of the multi-million dollar business. My mouth literally hit the scrapbook when I learned I'd be director. Koohii #2 My mouth hung open when I found out I was the heir to not only my father's scrapbooks, but he also left me as director of the company. Primitives heir, mouth, scrapbook, glass canopy, hood, flowers, director, Ken Russel, clothes hanger, coat hanger, one, mouth Kunyomi: Onyomi: シ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	heir 嗣 画数13 2011 Details Story Dictionary 嗣 heir Heisig's Mouth . . . scrapbook . . . director. Koohii #1 The lawyer called all the heirs into a meeting. Everybody else received cars, property, and the like. When it got to be my turn the lawyer informed me I would be receiving a scrapbook. My mouth dropped open. A scrapbook?! No Ferrari, no mansion, ...scrapbook?! Turns out the scrapbook was of my great uncle's company, and I had been named the new director of the multi-million dollar business. My mouth literally hit the scrapbook when I learned I'd be director. Koohii #2 My mouth hung open when I found out I was the heir to not only my father's scrapbooks, but he also left me as director of the company. Primitives heir, mouth, scrapbook, glass canopy, hood, flowers, director, Ken Russel, clothes hanger, coat hanger, one, mouth Kunyomi: Onyomi: シ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
boat Details Story Dictionary 舟 boat Heisig's After the drop and the glass canopy, we come to a combination of three strokes that we met only once before, in the character for mama (frame 105). The pictographic meaning we gave it there has no etymological relationship to this character, but use it if it helps. Koohii #1 I see this kanji as a pictograph of a two story boat seen from the front. The glass canopy is the body of the boat. The drop on top is the chimney. The horizontal line is the ceiling/floor between the the 1st/2nd floor. Finally, the two drops in the middle are the lights on the decks. Koohii #2 Cinnabar (丹) colored boat, the extra drop signifying that the paint hasn´t dried yet. The stick represents the oars. Primitives boat 舟(ふね): ship, boat, watercraft, shipping, vessel, steamship Kunyomi: ふね、ふな-、-ぶね Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 舟 (ふね)	boat 舟 画数6 2012 Details Story Dictionary 舟 boat Heisig's After the drop and the glass canopy, we come to a combination of three strokes that we met only once before, in the character for mama (frame 105). The pictographic meaning we gave it there has no etymological relationship to this character, but use it if it helps. Koohii #1 I see this kanji as a pictograph of a two story boat seen from the front. The glass canopy is the body of the boat. The drop on top is the chimney. The horizontal line is the ceiling/floor between the the 1st/2nd floor. Finally, the two drops in the middle are the lights on the decks. Koohii #2 Cinnabar (丹) colored boat, the extra drop signifying that the paint hasn´t dried yet. The stick represents the oars. Primitives boat 舟(ふね): ship, boat, watercraft, shipping, vessel, steamship Kunyomi: ふね、ふな-、-ぶね Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 舟 (ふね)
liner Details Story Dictionary 舶 liner Heisig's The type of boat connoted by this key word is a large oceangoing liner. The important thing here is to work with the elements boat and dove to make an image distinct from that of the former frame. Don't count on size alone to distinguish the boat from the liner. Koohii #1 The most famous LINER is the Titanic, which struck an iceberg and sunk. Just imagine that huge LINER strucking an even huger mass of white ice. Koohii #2 A liner is to boat as an emperor (#261) is to a king (#255), or a chief (#967) is to a person (#951): in each case we need only add white to the latter in order to get the former. Primitives liner, boat, white, dove 船舶(せんぱく): ship Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハク Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	liner 舶 画数11 2013 Details Story Dictionary 舶 liner Heisig's The type of boat connoted by this key word is a large oceangoing liner. The important thing here is to work with the elements boat and dove to make an image distinct from that of the former frame. Don't count on size alone to distinguish the boat from the liner. Koohii #1 The most famous LINER is the Titanic, which struck an iceberg and sunk. Just imagine that huge LINER strucking an even huger mass of white ice. Koohii #2 A liner is to boat as an emperor (#261) is to a king (#255), or a chief (#967) is to a person (#951): in each case we need only add white to the latter in order to get the former. Primitives liner, boat, white, dove 船舶(せんぱく): ship Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハク Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"navigate Details Story Dictionary 航 navigate Heisig's Boat . . . whirlwind. Koohii #1 To navigate a ""boat"" through a ""whirlwind"" takes a skilled navigator. Koohii #2 In Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker, you can navigate your boat by summoning whirlwinds. Primitives navigate, boat, whirlwind, top hat, wind 航海(こうかい): sail, voyage 航空(こうくう): aviation, flying Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"navigate 航 画数10 2014 Details Story Dictionary 航 navigate Heisig's Boat . . . whirlwind. Koohii #1 To navigate a ""boat"" through a ""whirlwind"" takes a skilled navigator. Koohii #2 In Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker, you can navigate your boat by summoning whirlwinds. Primitives navigate, boat, whirlwind, top hat, wind 航海(こうかい): sail, voyage 航空(こうくう): aviation, flying Kunyomi: Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
"gunwale Details Story Dictionary 舷 gunwale Heisig's Boat . . . mysterious. Koohii #1 The gunwale is perhaps the most mysterious part of a boat for it is neither a gun nor a whale. Koohii #2 Gunwale (rhymes with ""tunnel"") is the top edge of the side of a boat, for example the widened lip on the sides of a canoe. The mysterious origin of this part of a boat comes from the strengthened sides of warships that used artillery (it means ""gun ridge""). Primitives gunwale, boat, mysterious, top hat, cocoon Kunyomi: ふなべい、ふなばた Onyomi: ゲン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"gunwale 舷 画数11 2015 Details Story Dictionary 舷 gunwale Heisig's Boat . . . mysterious. Koohii #1 The gunwale is perhaps the most mysterious part of a boat for it is neither a gun nor a whale. Koohii #2 Gunwale (rhymes with ""tunnel"") is the top edge of the side of a boat, for example the widened lip on the sides of a canoe. The mysterious origin of this part of a boat comes from the strengthened sides of warships that used artillery (it means ""gun ridge""). Primitives gunwale, boat, mysterious, top hat, cocoon Kunyomi: ふなべい、ふなばた Onyomi: ゲン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
"carrier Details Story Dictionary 般 carrier Heisig's Boat . . . missile. Koohii #1 Carrier?! This means ""general"" (as in the general public or generally). OK.. Carriers, i.e. boats with missiles, are not available to the general public. Koohii #2 In general, carrier boats have missiles. Primitives carrier, boat, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 一般(いっぱん): general, universal, ordinary, average, liberal 全般(ぜんぱん): whole, universal, wholly, general Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"carrier 般 画数10 2016 Details Story Dictionary 般 carrier Heisig's Boat . . . missile. Koohii #1 Carrier?! This means ""general"" (as in the general public or generally). OK.. Carriers, i.e. boats with missiles, are not available to the general public. Koohii #2 In general, carrier boats have missiles. Primitives carrier, boat, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 一般(いっぱん): general, universal, ordinary, average, liberal 全般(ぜんぱん): whole, universal, wholly, general Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
"tray Details Story Dictionary 盤 tray Heisig's Carrier . . . dish. Koohii #1 What do you call a ""CARRIER"" of DISHes? A TRAY. Koohii #2 Imagine a restaurant set in Disney´s Fantasia or maybe in Harry Potter´s university, where dishes are magically landing and taking off of a carrier tray. Primitives tray, carrier, boat, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch, dish 碁盤(ごばん): Go board 基盤(きばん): foundation, basis 地盤(じばん): the ground 算盤(そろばん): abacus Kunyomi: Onyomi: バン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"tray 盤 画数15 2017 Details Story Dictionary 盤 tray Heisig's Carrier . . . dish. Koohii #1 What do you call a ""CARRIER"" of DISHes? A TRAY. Koohii #2 Imagine a restaurant set in Disney´s Fantasia or maybe in Harry Potter´s university, where dishes are magically landing and taking off of a carrier tray. Primitives tray, carrier, boat, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch, dish 碁盤(ごばん): Go board 基盤(きばん): foundation, basis 地盤(じばん): the ground 算盤(そろばん): abacus Kunyomi: Onyomi: バン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
conveyor Details Story Dictionary 搬 conveyor Heisig's Fingers . . . carrier. Koohii #1 When workers neglect workplace safety, their fingers get cut off and carried away by the conveyor belt, which looks like a ´finger carrier´ in that case. Koohii #2 During WWII, morse code was the primary means of communication from sea. The morse code specialist was the conveyor of messages to and from the crew of the carrier, using his fingers to tap out the secret messages. (This works especially well for 搬送周波数 carrier frequency and 搬送波 carrier wave, being the radio waves/frequencies used in morse code). Primitives conveyor, finger, fingers, carrier, boat, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 運搬(うんぱん): transport, carriage Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	conveyor 搬 画数13 2018 Details Story Dictionary 搬 conveyor Heisig's Fingers . . . carrier. Koohii #1 When workers neglect workplace safety, their fingers get cut off and carried away by the conveyor belt, which looks like a ´finger carrier´ in that case. Koohii #2 During WWII, morse code was the primary means of communication from sea. The morse code specialist was the conveyor of messages to and from the crew of the carrier, using his fingers to tap out the secret messages. (This works especially well for 搬送周波数 carrier frequency and 搬送波 carrier wave, being the radio waves/frequencies used in morse code). Primitives conveyor, finger, fingers, carrier, boat, cruise missile, missile, wind, crotch 運搬(うんぱん): transport, carriage Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"ship Details Story Dictionary 船 ship My Story SEND for the caterer! I have *eight* *mouths* to feed on this here *boat*! Koohii #1 A boy floats his toy boat in a gully and imagines it as an immense ship. Koohii #2 Aargh, hard to keep this separate from boat. How about this: the phrase ""shape up or ship out!"" This phrase originally meant that a soldier had better get his act together, or else face being shipped off into a combat zone. Here we see a poor WW-I soldier who has been shipped off to a combat zone. He´s riding in the boat overseas to fight in the trenches (gulley). Primitives ship, boat, gully, eight, mouth 汽船(きせん): steamship 漁船(ぎょせん): fishing boat 船舶(せんぱく): ship 船(ふね): ship, boat, watercraft, shipping, vessel, steamship 造船(ぞうせん): shipbuilding 風船(ふうせん): balloon 船便(ふなびん): surface mail (ship) Kunyomi: ふね、ふな- Onyomi: セン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 船 (ふね)"	"ship 船 画数11 2019 Details Story Dictionary 船 ship My Story SEND for the caterer! I have *eight* *mouths* to feed on this here *boat*! Koohii #1 A boy floats his toy boat in a gully and imagines it as an immense ship. Koohii #2 Aargh, hard to keep this separate from boat. How about this: the phrase ""shape up or ship out!"" This phrase originally meant that a soldier had better get his act together, or else face being shipped off into a combat zone. Here we see a poor WW-I soldier who has been shipped off to a combat zone. He´s riding in the boat overseas to fight in the trenches (gulley). Primitives ship, boat, gully, eight, mouth 汽船(きせん): steamship 漁船(ぎょせん): fishing boat 船舶(せんぱく): ship 船(ふね): ship, boat, watercraft, shipping, vessel, steamship 造船(ぞうせん): shipbuilding 風船(ふうせん): balloon 船便(ふなびん): surface mail (ship) Kunyomi: ふね、ふな- Onyomi: セン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 船 (ふね)"
warship Details Story Dictionary 艦 warship Heisig's Boat . . . oversee. Koohii #1 The warship towers over the smaller benign boats, overseeing their safe path from port to port. Koohii #2 A warship is a boat that oversees the seas. Think of it as the patroller of the ocean. Primitives warship, boat, oversee, retainer, slave, reclining, lying down, one, floor, dish 軍艦(ぐんかん): warship, battleship Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	warship 艦 画数21 2020 Details Story Dictionary 艦 warship Heisig's Boat . . . oversee. Koohii #1 The warship towers over the smaller benign boats, overseeing their safe path from port to port. Koohii #2 A warship is a boat that oversees the seas. Think of it as the patroller of the ocean. Primitives warship, boat, oversee, retainer, slave, reclining, lying down, one, floor, dish 軍艦(ぐんかん): warship, battleship Kunyomi: Onyomi: カン Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
rowboat Details Story Dictionary 艇 rowboat Heisig's Boat . . . courts. Koohii #1 Rowboats are a classic way to court (go on a date with) someone... Koohii #2 Courts in olden times would often punish convicts by sentencing them to a life of being the rower crew for large rowboat ships (there were no engines or boilers back then)... Yo ho, Yo ho.... Primitives rowboat, boat, courts, porter, drop, samurai, stretch Kunyomi: Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	rowboat 艇 画数13 2021 Details Story Dictionary 艇 rowboat Heisig's Boat . . . courts. Koohii #1 Rowboats are a classic way to court (go on a date with) someone... Koohii #2 Courts in olden times would often punish convicts by sentencing them to a life of being the rower crew for large rowboat ships (there were no engines or boilers back then)... Yo ho, Yo ho.... Primitives rowboat, boat, courts, porter, drop, samurai, stretch Kunyomi: Onyomi: テイ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
melon Details Story Dictionary 瓜 melon Heisig's The only thing that distinguishes this from the claw is the addition of the elbow, made by doubling up the third stroke and adding a fourth. Koohii #1 何これ???? ok, sorry to be crude... if you claw at a girls melons, she is gonna give you the elbow. Koohii #2 Vegetarian vultures are fighting for a melon, each trying to elbow its way to it with claws. Primitives melon, claw, vulture, elbow Kunyomi: うり Onyomi: カ、ケ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:	melon 瓜 画数6 2022 Details Story Dictionary 瓜 melon Heisig's The only thing that distinguishes this from the claw is the addition of the elbow, made by doubling up the third stroke and adding a fourth. Koohii #1 何これ???? ok, sorry to be crude... if you claw at a girls melons, she is gonna give you the elbow. Koohii #2 Vegetarian vultures are fighting for a melon, each trying to elbow its way to it with claws. Primitives melon, claw, vulture, elbow Kunyomi: うり Onyomi: カ、ケ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:
"arc Details Story Dictionary 弧 arc Heisig's Bow . . . melon. Koohii #1 When you use a bow to shoot a melon, the arc varies depending on how far away you are. Koohii #2 Joan of Arc (""arc"" also means ""bow"" in french) is practicing with a bow, shooting at melons in a distant field. Primitives arc, bow, melon, claw, vulture, elbow 括弧(かっこ): parenthesis, brackets Kunyomi: Onyomi: コ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"arc 弧 画数9 2023 Details Story Dictionary 弧 arc Heisig's Bow . . . melon. Koohii #1 When you use a bow to shoot a melon, the arc varies depending on how far away you are. Koohii #2 Joan of Arc (""arc"" also means ""bow"" in french) is practicing with a bow, shooting at melons in a distant field. Primitives arc, bow, melon, claw, vulture, elbow 括弧(かっこ): parenthesis, brackets Kunyomi: Onyomi: コ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
orphan Details Story Dictionary 孤 orphan Heisig's Child . . . melon. Koohii #1 An orphan will never know the joys on sucking on his mother´s melons........ Koohii #2 Unlike the celebrated story of Momotaro the peach boy, no one knows the story of the melon boy who was left an orphan. Primitives orphan, child, melon, claw, vulture, elbow 孤児(こじ): orphan 孤独(こどく): isolation, loneliness, solitude 孤立(こりつ): isolation, helplessness Kunyomi: Onyomi: コ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	orphan 孤 画数9 2024 Details Story Dictionary 孤 orphan Heisig's Child . . . melon. Koohii #1 An orphan will never know the joys on sucking on his mother´s melons........ Koohii #2 Unlike the celebrated story of Momotaro the peach boy, no one knows the story of the melon boy who was left an orphan. Primitives orphan, child, melon, claw, vulture, elbow 孤児(こじ): orphan 孤独(こどく): isolation, loneliness, solitude 孤立(こりつ): isolation, helplessness Kunyomi: Onyomi: コ Lesson: 50 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
cocoon Details Story Dictionary 繭 cocoon Heisig's Though it's a good thing that the primitive for cocoon has been radically abbreviated from this, its full form as a kanji, the story it holds is a charming one. The silkworm (insect) eats the leaves of the mulberry bush (the flowers), digests them and transforms them into thread with which it spins about itself, in mystic wisdom, its own coffin (the hood). The dividing line that separates the two elements helps the picture of the little worm cutting itself off from contact with the outside world, but as a character stroke, it is a clear exception. Koohii #1 This is a simple two-column manga showing the metamorphosis of a caterpillar into a cocoon. First, the caterpillar gets under a large flower (bees tend to hang around flowers, which scare away other predators). Then, in the first frame, we see the caterpillar (insect). Then, a bar separating this frame from the next frame (remember that Japanese manga run the other way!), in which we see the insect covered with thread, making a beautiful cocoon. Koohii #2 The magic flower is the reason why Spider-Man ended up miniaturized and confined inside a hood-like cocoon together with an insect. Now, only a walking stick separates them both. Primitives cocoon, flowers, hood, stick, thread, spiderman, insect Kunyomi: まゆ、きぬ Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 繭 (まゆ)	cocoon 繭 画数18 2025 Details Story Dictionary 繭 cocoon Heisig's Though it's a good thing that the primitive for cocoon has been radically abbreviated from this, its full form as a kanji, the story it holds is a charming one. The silkworm (insect) eats the leaves of the mulberry bush (the flowers), digests them and transforms them into thread with which it spins about itself, in mystic wisdom, its own coffin (the hood). The dividing line that separates the two elements helps the picture of the little worm cutting itself off from contact with the outside world, but as a character stroke, it is a clear exception. Koohii #1 This is a simple two-column manga showing the metamorphosis of a caterpillar into a cocoon. First, the caterpillar gets under a large flower (bees tend to hang around flowers, which scare away other predators). Then, in the first frame, we see the caterpillar (insect). Then, a bar separating this frame from the next frame (remember that Japanese manga run the other way!), in which we see the insect covered with thread, making a beautiful cocoon. Koohii #2 The magic flower is the reason why Spider-Man ended up miniaturized and confined inside a hood-like cocoon together with an insect. Now, only a walking stick separates them both. Primitives cocoon, flowers, hood, stick, thread, spiderman, insect Kunyomi: まゆ、きぬ Onyomi: ケン Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 繭 (まゆ)
benefit Details Story Dictionary 益 benefit Heisig's Poised over the dish here is a pair of animal horns that are attached to a pair of animal legs by a single horizontal stroke. Koohii #1 The benefit of having sharp horns and fast legs is that an animal can get to the food dish first. Koohii #2 The benefit of being an animal with horns and fast legs is in keeping it from becoming a dish for the other animals! (shaydwyrm). Primitives benefit, animal horns, one, floor, animal legs, eight, dish 収益(しゅうえき): earnings, proceeds, returns 益々(ますます): increasingly, more and more 有益(ゆうえき): beneficial, profitable 利益(りえき): profits, gains, (political, economic) interest Kunyomi: ま.す Onyomi: エキ、ヤク Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 有益 (ゆうえき), 利益 (りえき), 益する (まする), 益 (やく)	benefit 益 画数10 2026 Details Story Dictionary 益 benefit Heisig's Poised over the dish here is a pair of animal horns that are attached to a pair of animal legs by a single horizontal stroke. Koohii #1 The benefit of having sharp horns and fast legs is that an animal can get to the food dish first. Koohii #2 The benefit of being an animal with horns and fast legs is in keeping it from becoming a dish for the other animals! (shaydwyrm). Primitives benefit, animal horns, one, floor, animal legs, eight, dish 収益(しゅうえき): earnings, proceeds, returns 益々(ますます): increasingly, more and more 有益(ゆうえき): beneficial, profitable 利益(りえき): profits, gains, (political, economic) interest Kunyomi: ま.す Onyomi: エキ、ヤク Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 有益 (ゆうえき), 利益 (りえき), 益する (まする), 益 (やく)
"spare time Details Story Dictionary 暇 spare time Heisig's The element for day on the left is logical enough. Next to it we see staples being held in mouth (one stroke is doubled up), indicating working in one's hobby or handicrafts at home on one's spare time. The small box at the top right is facing backwards, or more properly ""inside out."" Finally, we have the crotch at the bottom. Koohii #1 Some jackass-like people have way too much spare time. You can find video´s of them all over the internet, if you like such things, you can watch it all day. You see them stapling their mouths shut, or throwing eachother upside down in boxes or kicking each other in the crotch. Koohii #2 Tip: The complex right side of this kanji appears twice more in Heisig. He later names it ""hobby"". REF: shrimp (#2689), haze (#2779). Primitives spare time, sun, day, hobby, staples, mouth, box, crotch, box2 暇(いとま): free time, leisure, leave, spare time, farewell 余暇(よか): leisure, leisure time, spare time 休暇(きゅうか): holiday, day off, furlough 暇(ひま): free time, leisure, leave, spare time, farewell Kunyomi: ひま、いとま Onyomi: カ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 暇 (ひま)"	"spare time 暇 画数13 2027 Details Story Dictionary 暇 spare time Heisig's The element for day on the left is logical enough. Next to it we see staples being held in mouth (one stroke is doubled up), indicating working in one's hobby or handicrafts at home on one's spare time. The small box at the top right is facing backwards, or more properly ""inside out."" Finally, we have the crotch at the bottom. Koohii #1 Some jackass-like people have way too much spare time. You can find video´s of them all over the internet, if you like such things, you can watch it all day. You see them stapling their mouths shut, or throwing eachother upside down in boxes or kicking each other in the crotch. Koohii #2 Tip: The complex right side of this kanji appears twice more in Heisig. He later names it ""hobby"". REF: shrimp (#2689), haze (#2779). Primitives spare time, sun, day, hobby, staples, mouth, box, crotch, box2 暇(いとま): free time, leisure, leave, spare time, farewell 余暇(よか): leisure, leisure time, spare time 休暇(きゅうか): holiday, day off, furlough 暇(ひま): free time, leisure, leave, spare time, farewell Kunyomi: ひま、いとま Onyomi: カ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 暇 (ひま)"
spread Details Story Dictionary 敷 spread Heisig's At the top we have the arrowhead whose vertical line joins it to the rice field (or brains) below it. Beneath it, the compass; and to the right, the taskmaster. Koohii #1 Instead of being glued to one specialty (#46) 専, I decided to spread my attention in many directions 方, and be a taskmaster at none. Koohii #2 Arrowheads are spread all over the field. The taskmaster profiteerer forces you to find them all using a compass. Primitives spread, arrowhead, rice field, brains, compass, direction, taskmaster 屋敷(やしき): mansion 座敷(ざしき): tatami room 敷地(しきち): site 敷く(しく): spread out, to lay out, take a position 風呂敷(ふろしき): wrapping cloth, cloth wrapper Kunyomi: し.く、-し.き Onyomi: フ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 敷く (し.く)	spread 敷 画数15 2028 Details Story Dictionary 敷 spread Heisig's At the top we have the arrowhead whose vertical line joins it to the rice field (or brains) below it. Beneath it, the compass; and to the right, the taskmaster. Koohii #1 Instead of being glued to one specialty (#46) 専, I decided to spread my attention in many directions 方, and be a taskmaster at none. Koohii #2 Arrowheads are spread all over the field. The taskmaster profiteerer forces you to find them all using a compass. Primitives spread, arrowhead, rice field, brains, compass, direction, taskmaster 屋敷(やしき): mansion 座敷(ざしき): tatami room 敷地(しきち): site 敷く(しく): spread out, to lay out, take a position 風呂敷(ふろしき): wrapping cloth, cloth wrapper Kunyomi: し.く、-し.き Onyomi: フ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 敷く (し.く)
"come Details Story Dictionary 来 come Heisig's This odd but common kanji is built up of the character for not yet into which a pair of animal horns has been inserted. Koohii #1 You horny bastard, don´t come, at least not yet! Koohii #2 Here I see, of all things, Bambi. His animal horns have not yet come out. (As we can see in the kanji, the animal horns are not at the top, not ""poking through"". ) Remember: Bambi will soon come to have a great set of animal horns but they have not yet come out. Primitives come, not yet, animal horns 外来(がいらい): imported, outpatient clinic 元来(がんらい): originally, primarily, essentially, logically, naturally 来る(きたる): to come, to arrive, to be due to, to be next, to be forthcoming 家来(けらい): retainer, retinue, servant 為来り(しきたり): customs 従来(じゅうらい): up to now, so far, traditional 出来物(できもの): able man, tumour, growth, boil, ulcer, abcess, rash, pimple 伝来(でんらい): ancestral, hereditary, imported, transmitted, handed down 来場(らいじょう): attendance 以来(いらい): since, henceforth 再来月(さらいげつ): month after next 再来週(さらいしゅう): week after next 出来上がり(できあがり): finish, completion, ready, made for, cut out 出来上がる(できあがる): be finished, be ready, by definition, be very drunk 出来事(できごと): incident, affair, happening, event 出来るだけ(できるだけ): if at all possible 本来(ほんらい): essentially, naturally, by nature, in (and of) itself, originally 未来(みらい): future tense, the future (usually distant), the world to come 来(らい): since (last month), for (10 days), next (year) 来日(らいにち): arrival in Japan, coming to Japan, visit to Japan さ来月(さらいげつ): the month after next さ来週(さらいしゅう): the week after next 将来(しょうらい): future 来る(くる): come, come to hand, arrive, approach, call on, set in, be due, become, grow, get, come from, be caused by, derive from 再来年(さらいねん): year after next 来月(らいげつ): next month 来週(らいしゅう): next week 来年(らいねん): next year Kunyomi: く.る、きた.る、きた.す、き.たす、き.たる、き、こ Onyomi: ライ、タイ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 来す (きた.す), 来る (きた.る), 来る (く.る)"	"come 来 画数7 2029 Details Story Dictionary 来 come Heisig's This odd but common kanji is built up of the character for not yet into which a pair of animal horns has been inserted. Koohii #1 You horny bastard, don´t come, at least not yet! Koohii #2 Here I see, of all things, Bambi. His animal horns have not yet come out. (As we can see in the kanji, the animal horns are not at the top, not ""poking through"". ) Remember: Bambi will soon come to have a great set of animal horns but they have not yet come out. Primitives come, not yet, animal horns 外来(がいらい): imported, outpatient clinic 元来(がんらい): originally, primarily, essentially, logically, naturally 来る(きたる): to come, to arrive, to be due to, to be next, to be forthcoming 家来(けらい): retainer, retinue, servant 為来り(しきたり): customs 従来(じゅうらい): up to now, so far, traditional 出来物(できもの): able man, tumour, growth, boil, ulcer, abcess, rash, pimple 伝来(でんらい): ancestral, hereditary, imported, transmitted, handed down 来場(らいじょう): attendance 以来(いらい): since, henceforth 再来月(さらいげつ): month after next 再来週(さらいしゅう): week after next 出来上がり(できあがり): finish, completion, ready, made for, cut out 出来上がる(できあがる): be finished, be ready, by definition, be very drunk 出来事(できごと): incident, affair, happening, event 出来るだけ(できるだけ): if at all possible 本来(ほんらい): essentially, naturally, by nature, in (and of) itself, originally 未来(みらい): future tense, the future (usually distant), the world to come 来(らい): since (last month), for (10 days), next (year) 来日(らいにち): arrival in Japan, coming to Japan, visit to Japan さ来月(さらいげつ): the month after next さ来週(さらいしゅう): the week after next 将来(しょうらい): future 来る(くる): come, come to hand, arrive, approach, call on, set in, be due, become, grow, get, come from, be caused by, derive from 再来年(さらいねん): year after next 来月(らいげつ): next month 来週(らいしゅう): next week 来年(らいねん): next year Kunyomi: く.る、きた.る、きた.す、き.たす、き.たる、き、こ Onyomi: ライ、タイ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 来す (きた.す), 来る (きた.る), 来る (く.る)"
spirit Details Story Dictionary 気 spirit Heisig's The spirit in this character refers to the changeable moods and airs of one's personality as well as to the more essential combination of vital forces that distinguish things and individuals one from the other. Its elements are: reclining . . . floor . . . fishhook . . . sheaf. Do not confuse with spirits (Frame 1930). Koohii #1 You´re reclining on the floor trying to hook a sheaf with a small hook through the cracks. That you´ve been doing this for seven hours without success shows your burning spirit. Koohii #2 Captain Hook, his spirit crushed, is lying on the ground cursing Wolverine who has defeated him with his far superior claws. Primitives spirit, landed fish, reclining, lying down, one, floor, fishhook, sheaf 呆気ない(あっけない): not enough, too quick (short long etc.) 意気込む(いきごむ): to be enthusiastic about 一気(いっき): drink!(said repeatedly as a party cheer) 陰気(いんき): gloom, melancholy 浮気(うわき): flighty, fickle, wanton, unfaithful 気質(かたぎ): spirit, character, trait, temperament, disposition 気触れる(かぶれる): to react to, to be influenced by, to go overboard for 寒気(かんき): cold, frost, chill 気兼ね(きがね): hesitance, diffidence, feeling constraint, fear of troubling someone, having scruples about doing something 気軽(きがる): cheerful, buoyant, lighthearted 気障(きざ): affectation, conceit, snobbery 気象(きしょう): weather, climate 気立て(きだて): disposition, nature 気配(きはい): indication, market trend, worry 気品(きひん): aroma 気風(きふう): character, traits, ethos 気まぐれ(きまぐれ): whim, caprice, whimsy, fickle, moody, uneven temper 気楽(きらく): at ease, comfortable 気流(きりゅう): atmospheric current 強気(ごうぎ): great, grand 根気(こんき): patience, perseverance, energy 磁気(じき): magnetism 湿気る(しける): to be damp, to be moist 湿気(しっき): moisture, humidity, dampness 水気(すいき): moisture, dampness, vapor, dropsy, edema 素っ気ない(そっけない): cold, short, curt, blunt 短気(たんき): quick temper 何気ない(なにげない): casual, unconcerned 不景気(ふけいき): business recession, hard times, depression, gloom, sullenness, cheerlessness 本気(ほんき): seriousness, truth, sanctity 無邪気(むじゃき): innocence, simple-mindedness 活気(かっき): energy, liveliness 換気(かんき): ventilation 気圧(きあつ): atmospheric pressure 気温(きおん): temperature 気候(きこう): climate 気体(きたい): vapour, gas 気付く(きづく): notice, recognize, become aware of, perceive, realize 気に入る(きにいる): be pleased with, to suit 気の毒(きのどく): pitiful, a pity 気味(きみ): sensation, feeling 気を付ける(きをつける): be careful, pay attention 景気(けいき): condition, state, business conditions, the times 気配(けはい): indication, market trend, worry 蒸気(じょうき): steam, vapour 水蒸気(すいじょうき): water vapour, steam 大気(たいき): atmosphere 強気(つよき): firm, strong 生意気(なまいき): impertinent, saucy, cheeky, conceit, audacious, brazen 人気(にんき): popular, business conditions, popular feeling 呑気(のんき): carefree, optimistic, careless, reckless, heedless, happy-go-lucky, easygoing 吐き気(はきけ): nausea, sickness in the stomach 雰囲気(ふんいき): atmosphere (e.g. musical), mood, ambience 平気(へいき): coolness, calmness, composure, unconcern 勇気(ゆうき): courage, bravery, valour, nerve, boldness 湯気(ゆげ): steam, vapour 陽気(ようき): season, weather, cheerfulness 気(き): spirit, mind 気分(きぶん): mood 気持ち(きもち): feelings 空気(くうき): air 天気予報(てんきよほう): weather forecast 元気(げんき): health(y), robust, vigor, energy, vitality, vim, stamina, spirit, courage, pep 天気(てんき): weather, the elements, fine weather 電気(でんき): electricity, (electric) light 病気(びょうき): illness, disease, sickness Kunyomi: いき Onyomi: キ、ケ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 気体 (きたい), 気候 (きこう), 元気 (げんき)	spirit 気 画数6 2030 Details Story Dictionary 気 spirit Heisig's The spirit in this character refers to the changeable moods and airs of one's personality as well as to the more essential combination of vital forces that distinguish things and individuals one from the other. Its elements are: reclining . . . floor . . . fishhook . . . sheaf. Do not confuse with spirits (Frame 1930). Koohii #1 You´re reclining on the floor trying to hook a sheaf with a small hook through the cracks. That you´ve been doing this for seven hours without success shows your burning spirit. Koohii #2 Captain Hook, his spirit crushed, is lying on the ground cursing Wolverine who has defeated him with his far superior claws. Primitives spirit, landed fish, reclining, lying down, one, floor, fishhook, sheaf 呆気ない(あっけない): not enough, too quick (short long etc.) 意気込む(いきごむ): to be enthusiastic about 一気(いっき): drink!(said repeatedly as a party cheer) 陰気(いんき): gloom, melancholy 浮気(うわき): flighty, fickle, wanton, unfaithful 気質(かたぎ): spirit, character, trait, temperament, disposition 気触れる(かぶれる): to react to, to be influenced by, to go overboard for 寒気(かんき): cold, frost, chill 気兼ね(きがね): hesitance, diffidence, feeling constraint, fear of troubling someone, having scruples about doing something 気軽(きがる): cheerful, buoyant, lighthearted 気障(きざ): affectation, conceit, snobbery 気象(きしょう): weather, climate 気立て(きだて): disposition, nature 気配(きはい): indication, market trend, worry 気品(きひん): aroma 気風(きふう): character, traits, ethos 気まぐれ(きまぐれ): whim, caprice, whimsy, fickle, moody, uneven temper 気楽(きらく): at ease, comfortable 気流(きりゅう): atmospheric current 強気(ごうぎ): great, grand 根気(こんき): patience, perseverance, energy 磁気(じき): magnetism 湿気る(しける): to be damp, to be moist 湿気(しっき): moisture, humidity, dampness 水気(すいき): moisture, dampness, vapor, dropsy, edema 素っ気ない(そっけない): cold, short, curt, blunt 短気(たんき): quick temper 何気ない(なにげない): casual, unconcerned 不景気(ふけいき): business recession, hard times, depression, gloom, sullenness, cheerlessness 本気(ほんき): seriousness, truth, sanctity 無邪気(むじゃき): innocence, simple-mindedness 活気(かっき): energy, liveliness 換気(かんき): ventilation 気圧(きあつ): atmospheric pressure 気温(きおん): temperature 気候(きこう): climate 気体(きたい): vapour, gas 気付く(きづく): notice, recognize, become aware of, perceive, realize 気に入る(きにいる): be pleased with, to suit 気の毒(きのどく): pitiful, a pity 気味(きみ): sensation, feeling 気を付ける(きをつける): be careful, pay attention 景気(けいき): condition, state, business conditions, the times 気配(けはい): indication, market trend, worry 蒸気(じょうき): steam, vapour 水蒸気(すいじょうき): water vapour, steam 大気(たいき): atmosphere 強気(つよき): firm, strong 生意気(なまいき): impertinent, saucy, cheeky, conceit, audacious, brazen 人気(にんき): popular, business conditions, popular feeling 呑気(のんき): carefree, optimistic, careless, reckless, heedless, happy-go-lucky, easygoing 吐き気(はきけ): nausea, sickness in the stomach 雰囲気(ふんいき): atmosphere (e.g. musical), mood, ambience 平気(へいき): coolness, calmness, composure, unconcern 勇気(ゆうき): courage, bravery, valour, nerve, boldness 湯気(ゆげ): steam, vapour 陽気(ようき): season, weather, cheerfulness 気(き): spirit, mind 気分(きぶん): mood 気持ち(きもち): feelings 空気(くうき): air 天気予報(てんきよほう): weather forecast 元気(げんき): health(y), robust, vigor, energy, vitality, vim, stamina, spirit, courage, pep 天気(てんき): weather, the elements, fine weather 電気(でんき): electricity, (electric) light 病気(びょうき): illness, disease, sickness Kunyomi: いき Onyomi: キ、ケ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 1 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 気体 (きたい), 気候 (きこう), 元気 (げんき)
vapor Details Story Dictionary 汽 vapor Heisig's Think of this character as a sibling of that for spirit. Simply replace sheaves with drops of water on the left in order to get vapor. Koohii #1 Water vapor almost looks like a spirit but has no soul. Koohii #2 Wolverine disappears into water vapor, seemingly his spirit dissipating into nothingness. Primitives vapor, water, water droplets, water pistol, landed fish, reclining, lying down, one, floor, fishhook 汽船(きせん): steamship 汽車(きしゃ): train (locomotive) Kunyomi: Onyomi: キ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	vapor 汽 画数7 2031 Details Story Dictionary 汽 vapor Heisig's Think of this character as a sibling of that for spirit. Simply replace sheaves with drops of water on the left in order to get vapor. Koohii #1 Water vapor almost looks like a spirit but has no soul. Koohii #2 Wolverine disappears into water vapor, seemingly his spirit dissipating into nothingness. Primitives vapor, water, water droplets, water pistol, landed fish, reclining, lying down, one, floor, fishhook 汽船(きせん): steamship 汽車(きしゃ): train (locomotive) Kunyomi: Onyomi: キ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
fly Details Story Dictionary 飛 fly My Story Captain *hook* flying in a *measuring* box with two *propellers*. Koohii #1 Hooks with small wings attached look like hummingbirds with a long beak. Two hummingbirds are trying to fly away with our little measuring box. What do they want it for? Koohii #2 Two hummingbirds flying into a measuring box serving as a bird feeder…　RTK2:　ヒ　飛行機　ひこうき(airplane). Primitives fly, hook, propeller, measuring box, thousand, needles, propeller2 蹴飛ばす(けとばす): to kick away, to kick off, to kick (someone), to refuse, to reject 飛ばす(とばす): skip over, omit 飛び込む(とびこむ): jump in, leap in, plunge into, dive 飛び出す(とびだす): jump out, rush out, fly out, appear suddenly, protrude, project 飛行(ひこう): flying, flight, aviation 飛行場(ひこうじょう): airfield, airport 飛ぶ(とぶ): jump, fly, leap, spring, bound, hop 飛行機(ひこうき): airplane Kunyomi: と.ぶ、と.ばす、-と.ばす Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 飛ばす (と.ばす), 飛ぶ (と.ぶ)	fly 飛 画数9 2032 Details Story Dictionary 飛 fly My Story Captain *hook* flying in a *measuring* box with two *propellers*. Koohii #1 Hooks with small wings attached look like hummingbirds with a long beak. Two hummingbirds are trying to fly away with our little measuring box. What do they want it for? Koohii #2 Two hummingbirds flying into a measuring box serving as a bird feeder…　RTK2:　ヒ　飛行機　ひこうき(airplane). Primitives fly, hook, propeller, measuring box, thousand, needles, propeller2 蹴飛ばす(けとばす): to kick away, to kick off, to kick (someone), to refuse, to reject 飛ばす(とばす): skip over, omit 飛び込む(とびこむ): jump in, leap in, plunge into, dive 飛び出す(とびだす): jump out, rush out, fly out, appear suddenly, protrude, project 飛行(ひこう): flying, flight, aviation 飛行場(ひこうじょう): airfield, airport 飛ぶ(とぶ): jump, fly, leap, spring, bound, hop 飛行機(ひこうき): airplane Kunyomi: と.ぶ、と.ばす、-と.ばす Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 飛ばす (と.ばす), 飛ぶ (と.ぶ)
"sink Details Story Dictionary 沈 sink Heisig's The technique for sinking used in this kanji is unique. Rather than the biblical image of tying a millstone about the victim's neck, here we see a crown tied about one leg before the unfortunate party is tossed into the water. Koohii #1 (thx geezer) The maimed waitress (no head and arms just her legs and trunk) is dropped into the water with a cement crown to make sure she sinks. She shouldn´t have been so nosy about her yakuza-boyfriend´s schemes. Koohii #2 This is the famous story of Archimedes and the Crown, where buoyancy was discovered. Watching the crown sink in the water, Archimedes detected the fraud and ran naked through the city (human legs distorted from running) yelling ""Eureka! Eureka!"" See http://math.nyu.edu/~crorres/Archimedes/Crown/CrownIntro.html and http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eureka_%28word%29. Primitives sink, water, water droplets, water pistol, garter, crown, human legs 沈める(しずめる): to sink, to submerge 沈殿(ちんでん): precipitation, settlement 沈没(ちんぼつ): sinking, foundering 沈黙(ちんもく): silence, reticence 沈む(しずむ): sink, feel depressed Kunyomi: しず.む、しず.める Onyomi: チン、ジン Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 沈む (しず.む), 沈める (しず.める)"	"sink 沈 画数7 2033 Details Story Dictionary 沈 sink Heisig's The technique for sinking used in this kanji is unique. Rather than the biblical image of tying a millstone about the victim's neck, here we see a crown tied about one leg before the unfortunate party is tossed into the water. Koohii #1 (thx geezer) The maimed waitress (no head and arms just her legs and trunk) is dropped into the water with a cement crown to make sure she sinks. She shouldn´t have been so nosy about her yakuza-boyfriend´s schemes. Koohii #2 This is the famous story of Archimedes and the Crown, where buoyancy was discovered. Watching the crown sink in the water, Archimedes detected the fraud and ran naked through the city (human legs distorted from running) yelling ""Eureka! Eureka!"" See http://math.nyu.edu/~crorres/Archimedes/Crown/CrownIntro.html and http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eureka_%28word%29. Primitives sink, water, water droplets, water pistol, garter, crown, human legs 沈める(しずめる): to sink, to submerge 沈殿(ちんでん): precipitation, settlement 沈没(ちんぼつ): sinking, foundering 沈黙(ちんもく): silence, reticence 沈む(しずむ): sink, feel depressed Kunyomi: しず.む、しず.める Onyomi: チン、ジン Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 沈む (しず.む), 沈める (しず.める)"
"pillow Details Story Dictionary 枕 pillow Heisig's Tree . . . crown tied around leg of person. Koohii #1 The guy who was thrown into the river to sink was given one last request. ""If I´m gonna be sleeping with the fishes,"" he said, ""can I at least have a pillow? I´m real sensitive."" The mafia bosses laughed. ""Look, my doctor said I can only use wooden pillows, I have a real serious condition. Can I at least die comfortable-like?"" The mafia dudes said fine, and let him have his pillow. They tossed him the river and drove off...and after a minute, he bobbed to the top, thanks to his floating wood pillow. Koohii #2 WOODEN PILLOWS do not sink (#1888) in water. Primitives pillow, tree, wood, garter, crown, human legs 枕(まくら): pillow, bolster Kunyomi: まくら Onyomi: チン、シン Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 枕 (まくら)"	"pillow 枕 画数8 2034 Details Story Dictionary 枕 pillow Heisig's Tree . . . crown tied around leg of person. Koohii #1 The guy who was thrown into the river to sink was given one last request. ""If I´m gonna be sleeping with the fishes,"" he said, ""can I at least have a pillow? I´m real sensitive."" The mafia bosses laughed. ""Look, my doctor said I can only use wooden pillows, I have a real serious condition. Can I at least die comfortable-like?"" The mafia dudes said fine, and let him have his pillow. They tossed him the river and drove off...and after a minute, he bobbed to the top, thanks to his floating wood pillow. Koohii #2 WOODEN PILLOWS do not sink (#1888) in water. Primitives pillow, tree, wood, garter, crown, human legs 枕(まくら): pillow, bolster Kunyomi: まくら Onyomi: チン、シン Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 枕 (まくら)"
"wife Details Story Dictionary 妻 wife Heisig's Ten . . . rakes . . . woman. Koohii #1 Ten rakes woman. your wife digs her fingernails into you and it feels like 10 rakes when she finds you ontop of another woman. Koohii #2 (I´m really not sexist, this just helps me remember the kanji): I make my WIFE do all the yard work, and as a really mean joke, I bought her TEN RAKES for her birthday this year. ""Do the yardwork, WOMAN! You have TEN perfectly good RAKES to choose from!"". Primitives wife, ten, needle, rake, woman 夫妻(ふさい): man and wife, married couple 妻(つま): wife Kunyomi: つま Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 妻 (つま)"	"wife 妻 画数8 2035 Details Story Dictionary 妻 wife Heisig's Ten . . . rakes . . . woman. Koohii #1 Ten rakes woman. your wife digs her fingernails into you and it feels like 10 rakes when she finds you ontop of another woman. Koohii #2 (I´m really not sexist, this just helps me remember the kanji): I make my WIFE do all the yard work, and as a really mean joke, I bought her TEN RAKES for her birthday this year. ""Do the yardwork, WOMAN! You have TEN perfectly good RAKES to choose from!"". Primitives wife, ten, needle, rake, woman 夫妻(ふさい): man and wife, married couple 妻(つま): wife Kunyomi: つま Onyomi: サイ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 妻 (つま)"
nifty Details Story Dictionary 凄 nifty Heisig's Ice . . . wife. Koohii #1 His wife has a nifty way of making all types of ice cream in her home freezer. Koohii #2 Sugoi! Sugoi! Ice Wife Sugoi! Primitives nifty, ice, wife, ten, needle, rake, woman 凄い(すごい): terrible, dreadful, terrific, amazing, great, wonderful, to a great extent 物凄い(ものすごい): earth-shattering, staggering, to a very great extent Kunyomi: さむ.い、すご.い、すさ.まじい Onyomi: セイ、サイ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	nifty 凄 画数10 2036 Details Story Dictionary 凄 nifty Heisig's Ice . . . wife. Koohii #1 His wife has a nifty way of making all types of ice cream in her home freezer. Koohii #2 Sugoi! Sugoi! Ice Wife Sugoi! Primitives nifty, ice, wife, ten, needle, rake, woman 凄い(すごい): terrible, dreadful, terrific, amazing, great, wonderful, to a great extent 物凄い(ものすごい): earth-shattering, staggering, to a very great extent Kunyomi: さむ.い、すご.い、すさ.まじい Onyomi: セイ、サイ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
decline Details Story Dictionary 衰 decline Heisig's Let this key word connote the decline and fall of the Roman Empire. It shows a fellow in a top hat and scarf, trying hard to look happy by putting a walking stick in his mouth sideways to twist his face into a grotesque but semi permanent smile. Koohii #1 If you thought that the dude in 哀 was pathetic, you haven´t seen him after his decline. Here he is carrying a stick around in his mouth like a dog, begging people to throw it for him. Note that the mouth is closed only after the stick goes in, as is only logical. Koohii #2 If you thought that the dude in 哀 was pathetic, you haven´t seen him after his decline. Here he is carrying a stick around in his mouth like a dog, allowing people to rent him and play catch with him for money! Primitives decline, pathetic, stick, top hat, scarf, mouth 衰える(おとろえる): to become weak, to decline, to wear, to abate, to decay, to wither, to waste away 老衰(ろうすい): senility, senile decay Kunyomi: おとろ.える Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 衰える (おとろ.える)	decline 衰 画数10 2037 Details Story Dictionary 衰 decline Heisig's Let this key word connote the decline and fall of the Roman Empire. It shows a fellow in a top hat and scarf, trying hard to look happy by putting a walking stick in his mouth sideways to twist his face into a grotesque but semi permanent smile. Koohii #1 If you thought that the dude in 哀 was pathetic, you haven´t seen him after his decline. Here he is carrying a stick around in his mouth like a dog, begging people to throw it for him. Note that the mouth is closed only after the stick goes in, as is only logical. Koohii #2 If you thought that the dude in 哀 was pathetic, you haven´t seen him after his decline. Here he is carrying a stick around in his mouth like a dog, allowing people to rent him and play catch with him for money! Primitives decline, pathetic, stick, top hat, scarf, mouth 衰える(おとろえる): to become weak, to decline, to wear, to abate, to decay, to wither, to waste away 老衰(ろうすい): senility, senile decay Kunyomi: おとろ.える Onyomi: スイ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 衰える (おとろ.える)
inmost Details Story Dictionary 衷 inmost Heisig's Between the top hat and the scarf you will see the character for in which is truncated at the bottom so as not to interfere with the scarf. You can think of this character forming as a pair with that of the former frame: there the in (the walking stick in the mouth) was set on its side; here it is set upright. Koohii #1 The guy from pathetic (#401) shared his inmost feelings with a girl and she rammed a walking stick down his throat. It ruptured his inmost organs. Koohii #2 Besides making money from acting like a dog (see decline), the pathetic man has risked his inmost internal organs by becoming a cane swallower! Primitives inmost, ten, needle, mouth, scarf 折衷(せっちゅう): compromise, cross, blending, eclecticism Kunyomi: Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	inmost 衷 画数9 2038 Details Story Dictionary 衷 inmost Heisig's Between the top hat and the scarf you will see the character for in which is truncated at the bottom so as not to interfere with the scarf. You can think of this character forming as a pair with that of the former frame: there the in (the walking stick in the mouth) was set on its side; here it is set upright. Koohii #1 The guy from pathetic (#401) shared his inmost feelings with a girl and she rammed a walking stick down his throat. It ruptured his inmost organs. Koohii #2 Besides making money from acting like a dog (see decline), the pathetic man has risked his inmost internal organs by becoming a cane swallower! Primitives inmost, ten, needle, mouth, scarf 折衷(せっちゅう): compromise, cross, blending, eclecticism Kunyomi: Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
mask Details Story Dictionary 面 mask Heisig's Imagine a mask over your head with eyes peeping out from all over the head, a hundred in all (the element for eye displacing the fifth stroke of that for hundred). Koohii #1 If you´re wearing a mask, a hundred eyes can look at you but none of them will know who you are. Koohii #2 When Jim Carrey puts on The Mask, he can make it seem like he has 100 eyes popping out of his head. Primitives mask, hundred, one, ceiling, drop, pent in, eye 一面(いちめん): one side, one phase, front page, the other hand, the whole surface 面(おも): face 面白い(おもしろい): interesting, amusing 几帳面(きちょうめん): methodical, punctual, steady 生真面目(きまじめ): too serious, person who is too serious, honesty, sincerity 斜面(しゃめん): slope, slanting surface, bevel 側面(そくめん): side, flank, sidelight, lateral 対面(たいめん): interview, meeting 断面(だんめん): cross section 直面(ちょくめん): confrontation 面皰(にきび): pimple, acne 覆面(ふくめん): mask, veil, disguise 面会(めんかい): interview 面する(めんする): to face on, to look out on to 面目(めんぼく): face, honour, reputation, prestige, dignity, credit 正面(しょうめん): front, frontage, facade, main 場面(ばめん): scene, setting (e.g. of novel) 表面(ひょうめん): surface, outside, face, appearance 方面(ほうめん): direction, district, field (of study) 真面目(まじめ): diligent, serious, honest 面(めん): face, surface, facial features, mask, side or facet, corner, page 面積(めんせき): area 面接(めんせつ): interview 面倒(めんどう): trouble, difficulty, care, attention 面倒臭い(めんどうくさい): bother to do, tiresome Kunyomi: おも、おもて、つら Onyomi: メン、ベン Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 面 (おも), 面 (おもて), 面 (つら)	mask 面 画数9 2039 Details Story Dictionary 面 mask Heisig's Imagine a mask over your head with eyes peeping out from all over the head, a hundred in all (the element for eye displacing the fifth stroke of that for hundred). Koohii #1 If you´re wearing a mask, a hundred eyes can look at you but none of them will know who you are. Koohii #2 When Jim Carrey puts on The Mask, he can make it seem like he has 100 eyes popping out of his head. Primitives mask, hundred, one, ceiling, drop, pent in, eye 一面(いちめん): one side, one phase, front page, the other hand, the whole surface 面(おも): face 面白い(おもしろい): interesting, amusing 几帳面(きちょうめん): methodical, punctual, steady 生真面目(きまじめ): too serious, person who is too serious, honesty, sincerity 斜面(しゃめん): slope, slanting surface, bevel 側面(そくめん): side, flank, sidelight, lateral 対面(たいめん): interview, meeting 断面(だんめん): cross section 直面(ちょくめん): confrontation 面皰(にきび): pimple, acne 覆面(ふくめん): mask, veil, disguise 面会(めんかい): interview 面する(めんする): to face on, to look out on to 面目(めんぼく): face, honour, reputation, prestige, dignity, credit 正面(しょうめん): front, frontage, facade, main 場面(ばめん): scene, setting (e.g. of novel) 表面(ひょうめん): surface, outside, face, appearance 方面(ほうめん): direction, district, field (of study) 真面目(まじめ): diligent, serious, honest 面(めん): face, surface, facial features, mask, side or facet, corner, page 面積(めんせき): area 面接(めんせつ): interview 面倒(めんどう): trouble, difficulty, care, attention 面倒臭い(めんどうくさい): bother to do, tiresome Kunyomi: おも、おもて、つら Onyomi: メン、ベン Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 面 (おも), 面 (おもて), 面 (つら)
noodles Details Story Dictionary 麺 noodles Heisig's Barley . . . mask. Koohii #1 +sgrant: I always eat barley noodles with a mask on - it stops them splashing in your face. However it bareley helps. Also everyone else grows up from his table and uses his walking legs to get the hell out of here. Koohii #2 There is a certain restaurant in West-Shinjuku that serves its noodles made of BARLEY in a MASK instead of a plate. I love these theme-restaurants! Primitives noodles, barley, grow up, walking legs, mask, hundred, one, ceiling, drop, pent in, eye Kunyomi: むぎこ Onyomi: メン、ベン Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	noodles 麺 画数16 2040 Details Story Dictionary 麺 noodles Heisig's Barley . . . mask. Koohii #1 +sgrant: I always eat barley noodles with a mask on - it stops them splashing in your face. However it bareley helps. Also everyone else grows up from his table and uses his walking legs to get the hell out of here. Koohii #2 There is a certain restaurant in West-Shinjuku that serves its noodles made of BARLEY in a MASK instead of a plate. I love these theme-restaurants! Primitives noodles, barley, grow up, walking legs, mask, hundred, one, ceiling, drop, pent in, eye Kunyomi: むぎこ Onyomi: メン、ベン Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
"leather Details Story Dictionary 革 leather My Story [""Cowboy head"" {廿} + Mouth + Needle/ten] Female cowboy with big tits and a thicc ass Koohii #1 I asked the street vendor the price of the LEATHER jacket. He said TWENTY, but with my MOUTH, I talked him down to TEN. (correct stroke order). Koohii #2 You can feed twenty mouths for a year for the price of ten leather coats. Primitives leather, flowers, car, mouth, ten, needle 改革(かいかく): reform, reformation, innovation 革新(かくしん): reform, innovation 革命(かくめい): revolution 吊り革(つりかわ): strap 変革(へんかく): change, reform, revolution, upheaval, (the) Reformation 革(かわ): leather Kunyomi: かわ Onyomi: カク Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 革 (かわ)"	"leather 革 画数9 2041 Details Story Dictionary 革 leather My Story [""Cowboy head"" {廿} + Mouth + Needle/ten] Female cowboy with big tits and a thicc ass Koohii #1 I asked the street vendor the price of the LEATHER jacket. He said TWENTY, but with my MOUTH, I talked him down to TEN. (correct stroke order). Koohii #2 You can feed twenty mouths for a year for the price of ten leather coats. Primitives leather, flowers, car, mouth, ten, needle 改革(かいかく): reform, reformation, innovation 革新(かくしん): reform, innovation 革命(かくめい): revolution 吊り革(つりかわ): strap 変革(へんかく): change, reform, revolution, upheaval, (the) Reformation 革(かわ): leather Kunyomi: かわ Onyomi: カク Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 革 (かわ)"
shoes Details Story Dictionary 靴 shoes Heisig's Leather . . . change. Koohii #1 Leather shoes are nice because they change shape to fit your foot. Koohii #2 Leather is often changed into shoes. Primitives shoes, leather, flowers, car, mouth, ten, needle, change, person, spoon, sitting on the ground 靴(くつ): shoes, footwear 靴下(くつした): socks Kunyomi: くつ Onyomi: カ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 靴 (くつ)	shoes 靴 画数13 2042 Details Story Dictionary 靴 shoes Heisig's Leather . . . change. Koohii #1 Leather shoes are nice because they change shape to fit your foot. Koohii #2 Leather is often changed into shoes. Primitives shoes, leather, flowers, car, mouth, ten, needle, change, person, spoon, sitting on the ground 靴(くつ): shoes, footwear 靴下(くつした): socks Kunyomi: くつ Onyomi: カ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 靴 (くつ)
hegemony Details Story Dictionary 覇 hegemony Heisig's Old West . . . leather . . . moon. Koohii #1 In the old west, animal skins were made into leather and their flesh was eaten, thus using the whole animal, which viewed from the animal side could be taken as humans asserting complete hegemony over them. All your base are belong to us. Koohii #2 In the Old West, cowboys had hegemony OVER the Indians despite their leathercraft and ability to navigate by the moon. Primitives hegemony, old west, leather, flowers, car, mouth, ten, needle, moon, month, flesh, part of the body Kunyomi: はたがしら Onyomi: ハ、ハク Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	hegemony 覇 画数19 2043 Details Story Dictionary 覇 hegemony Heisig's Old West . . . leather . . . moon. Koohii #1 In the old west, animal skins were made into leather and their flesh was eaten, thus using the whole animal, which viewed from the animal side could be taken as humans asserting complete hegemony over them. All your base are belong to us. Koohii #2 In the Old West, cowboys had hegemony OVER the Indians despite their leathercraft and ability to navigate by the moon. Primitives hegemony, old west, leather, flowers, car, mouth, ten, needle, moon, month, flesh, part of the body Kunyomi: はたがしら Onyomi: ハ、ハク Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
voice Details Story Dictionary 声 voice My Story [Jesus + stripped flag] *Jesus* rose above the *striped flag* and sung with the voice of an angle Koohii #1 Having lost his voice, the samurai comunicated to his troops with a striped flag. Koohii #2 When an enemy´s flag is raised, a true samurai can split it in half with just his voice. Primitives voice, samurai, flag, stick 歓声(かんせい): cheer, shout of joy 声明(せいめい): declaration, statement, proclamation 声(こえ): voice Kunyomi: こえ、こわ- Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 声楽 (せいがく), 声援 (せいえん), 名声 (めいせい), 声 (こえ)	voice 声 画数7 2044 Details Story Dictionary 声 voice My Story [Jesus + stripped flag] *Jesus* rose above the *striped flag* and sung with the voice of an angle Koohii #1 Having lost his voice, the samurai comunicated to his troops with a striped flag. Koohii #2 When an enemy´s flag is raised, a true samurai can split it in half with just his voice. Primitives voice, samurai, flag, stick 歓声(かんせい): cheer, shout of joy 声明(せいめい): declaration, statement, proclamation 声(こえ): voice Kunyomi: こえ、こわ- Onyomi: セイ、ショウ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 声楽 (せいがく), 声援 (せいえん), 名声 (めいせい), 声 (こえ)
eyebrow Details Story Dictionary 眉 eyebrow Heisig's The flag here has an extra vertical stroke in it. Think of it as an eyebrow pencil stuck in the eye. Koohii #1 The eyebrows hover over the eyes like a divided flag. Koohii #2 Pictograph: opera glasses over eyes ビ ミ まゆ. Primitives eyebrow, flag, stick, eye 眉(まゆ): eyebrow Kunyomi: まゆ Onyomi: ビ、ミ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 眉 (まゆ)	eyebrow 眉 画数9 2045 Details Story Dictionary 眉 eyebrow Heisig's The flag here has an extra vertical stroke in it. Think of it as an eyebrow pencil stuck in the eye. Koohii #1 The eyebrows hover over the eyes like a divided flag. Koohii #2 Pictograph: opera glasses over eyes ビ ミ まゆ. Primitives eyebrow, flag, stick, eye 眉(まゆ): eyebrow Kunyomi: まゆ Onyomi: ビ、ミ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 眉 (まゆ)
"give Details Story Dictionary 呉 give Heisig's The complex of strokes in this kanji is unusual and difficult, because of the fourth stroke, which is rare (see frames 33 and 34). The mouth and tool are already familiar. Koohii #1 Picture of a person facing you. 口 is the head. His right arm is raised (your left), to give you something from a tray 一. His legs ハ are below the tray. 呉れる、くれる, to give: 伯父がこの時計を呉れました, ""My uncle gave me this watch."" Following -て form of another verb, means ""to do the favor of"": 窓を開けて呉れませんか, ""Won't you open the window [do the favor of opening/kindly open the window]?"" Usu. written in hiragana. Koohii #2 I see this as a pictograph of an old-style phonograph - a stand, record, crank and bell (the mouth). Even the primitives work out - a tool with a crank which plays music out of the bell mouth. Imaginge giving one of these old and beautiful phonographs to a classical or jazz music buff! Primitives give, mouth, chair, tool, animal legs 呉れる(くれる): to give, to let one have, to do for one, to be given Kunyomi: く.れる、くれ Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"give 呉 画数7 2046 Details Story Dictionary 呉 give Heisig's The complex of strokes in this kanji is unusual and difficult, because of the fourth stroke, which is rare (see frames 33 and 34). The mouth and tool are already familiar. Koohii #1 Picture of a person facing you. 口 is the head. His right arm is raised (your left), to give you something from a tray 一. His legs ハ are below the tray. 呉れる、くれる, to give: 伯父がこの時計を呉れました, ""My uncle gave me this watch."" Following -て form of another verb, means ""to do the favor of"": 窓を開けて呉れませんか, ""Won't you open the window [do the favor of opening/kindly open the window]?"" Usu. written in hiragana. Koohii #2 I see this as a pictograph of an old-style phonograph - a stand, record, crank and bell (the mouth). Even the primitives work out - a tool with a crank which plays music out of the bell mouth. Imaginge giving one of these old and beautiful phonographs to a classical or jazz music buff! Primitives give, mouth, chair, tool, animal legs 呉れる(くれる): to give, to let one have, to do for one, to be given Kunyomi: く.れる、くれ Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"recreation Details Story Dictionary 娯 recreation Heisig's Woman . . . give. Koohii #1 A woman gives up her recreation time in order to raise a family. Koohii #2 Typical male fantasy of recreation: women ""giving it up"". Primitives recreation, woman, give, mouth, chair, tool, animal legs 娯楽(ごらく): pleasure, amusement Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"recreation 娯 画数10 2047 Details Story Dictionary 娯 recreation Heisig's Woman . . . give. Koohii #1 A woman gives up her recreation time in order to raise a family. Koohii #2 Typical male fantasy of recreation: women ""giving it up"". Primitives recreation, woman, give, mouth, chair, tool, animal legs 娯楽(ごらく): pleasure, amusement Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"mistake Details Story Dictionary 誤 mistake Heisig's Words . . . give. Koohii #1 You must give words of apology when you make a mistake. Koohii #2 It is a rookie mistake to believe the words when your sweetie says ""You don´t have to give me anything for my birthday."" Trust me, your sweetie wants something, something shiny, and if you disappoint, you will suffer. Primitives mistake, say, words, keitai, mouth, give, mouth, chair, tool, animal legs, mouth2 誤る(あやまる): to make a mistake 誤差(ごさ): error 誤魔化す(ごまかす): to deceive, to falsify, to misrepresent 錯誤(さくご): mistake 誤り(あやまり): error 誤解(ごかい): misunderstanding Kunyomi: あやま.る、-あやま.る Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 誤る (あやま.る)"	"mistake 誤 画数14 2048 Details Story Dictionary 誤 mistake Heisig's Words . . . give. Koohii #1 You must give words of apology when you make a mistake. Koohii #2 It is a rookie mistake to believe the words when your sweetie says ""You don´t have to give me anything for my birthday."" Trust me, your sweetie wants something, something shiny, and if you disappoint, you will suffer. Primitives mistake, say, words, keitai, mouth, give, mouth, chair, tool, animal legs, mouth2 誤る(あやまる): to make a mistake 誤差(ごさ): error 誤魔化す(ごまかす): to deceive, to falsify, to misrepresent 錯誤(さくご): mistake 誤り(あやまり): error 誤解(ごかい): misunderstanding Kunyomi: あやま.る、-あやま.る Onyomi: ゴ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 誤る (あやま.る)"
steam Details Story Dictionary 蒸 steam My Story Note: *complete + water + floor* are later combined into 丞 {丞}. Story: The maker of a steam tea machine asks you for a *helping hand* and explains that your job is to throw Jasmine *flowers* on the *fire* to make the steam. RTK2:　ジョウ　蒸発　じょうはつ(evaporation). Koohii #1 Think of a picture of someone steaming vegetables. On top you see the flowers of cauliflower or something else that is being steamed. Underneath, the pan is completely full of water. Below the pan is a floor - that's the hotplate - and under that the oven fire. Caution: don't confuse with boil (#1257), or the steam radical in spirit (#1885). Koohii #2 When you want to steam some flowers/vegetation you don't cover them completely with water, rather you have just a little at the floor of the saucepan and then heat. Primitives steam, flowers, helping hand, complete, water, one, floor, oven-fire, barbecue 蒸留(じょうりゅう): distillation 蒸気(じょうき): steam, vapour 蒸発(じょうはつ): evaporation, unexplained disappearance 水蒸気(すいじょうき): water vapour, steam 蒸し暑い(むしあつい): humid, sultry 蒸す(むす): to steam, poultice, be sultry Kunyomi: む.す、む.れる、む.らす Onyomi: ジョウ、セイ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 蒸す (む.す), 蒸らす (む.らす), 蒸れる (む.れる)	steam 蒸 画数13 2049 Details Story Dictionary 蒸 steam My Story Note: *complete + water + floor* are later combined into 丞 {丞}. Story: The maker of a steam tea machine asks you for a *helping hand* and explains that your job is to throw Jasmine *flowers* on the *fire* to make the steam. RTK2:　ジョウ　蒸発　じょうはつ(evaporation). Koohii #1 Think of a picture of someone steaming vegetables. On top you see the flowers of cauliflower or something else that is being steamed. Underneath, the pan is completely full of water. Below the pan is a floor - that's the hotplate - and under that the oven fire. Caution: don't confuse with boil (#1257), or the steam radical in spirit (#1885). Koohii #2 When you want to steam some flowers/vegetation you don't cover them completely with water, rather you have just a little at the floor of the saucepan and then heat. Primitives steam, flowers, helping hand, complete, water, one, floor, oven-fire, barbecue 蒸留(じょうりゅう): distillation 蒸気(じょうき): steam, vapour 蒸発(じょうはつ): evaporation, unexplained disappearance 水蒸気(すいじょうき): water vapour, steam 蒸し暑い(むしあつい): humid, sultry 蒸す(むす): to steam, poultice, be sultry Kunyomi: む.す、む.れる、む.らす Onyomi: ジョウ、セイ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 蒸す (む.す), 蒸らす (む.らす), 蒸れる (む.れる)
"acquiesce Details Story Dictionary 承 acquiesce Heisig's The sense of passive acceptance or reception of information is contained in this key word. The form is based on the middle portion of the preceding character, with three additional strokes, best thought of as the kanji for three. Koohii #1 To get someone to completely acquiesce it takes 3 dunks in the water before they give. Koohii #2 To get someone to acquiesce, duck them completely in aqua (=water) three times. (variation on dingomick´s). Primitives acquiesce, water, complete, three 承諾(しょうだく): consent, acquiescence, agreement 了承(りょうしょう): acknowledgement, understanding (e.g. ""please be understanding of the mess during our renovation"") 承る(うけたまわる): (humble) hear, be told, know 承認(しょうにん): recognition, acknowledgement, approval, consent, agreement 承知(しょうち): consent, agree Kunyomi: うけたまわ.る、う.ける、ささ.げる、とど.める、たす.ける、こ.らす、つい.で、すく.う Onyomi: ショウ、ジョウ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 承る (うけたまわ.る)"	"acquiesce 承 画数8 2050 Details Story Dictionary 承 acquiesce Heisig's The sense of passive acceptance or reception of information is contained in this key word. The form is based on the middle portion of the preceding character, with three additional strokes, best thought of as the kanji for three. Koohii #1 To get someone to completely acquiesce it takes 3 dunks in the water before they give. Koohii #2 To get someone to acquiesce, duck them completely in aqua (=water) three times. (variation on dingomick´s). Primitives acquiesce, water, complete, three 承諾(しょうだく): consent, acquiescence, agreement 了承(りょうしょう): acknowledgement, understanding (e.g. ""please be understanding of the mess during our renovation"") 承る(うけたまわる): (humble) hear, be told, know 承認(しょうにん): recognition, acknowledgement, approval, consent, agreement 承知(しょうち): consent, agree Kunyomi: うけたまわ.る、う.ける、ささ.げる、とど.める、たす.ける、こ.らす、つい.で、すく.う Onyomi: ショウ、ジョウ Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 承る (うけたまわ.る)"
bin Details Story Dictionary 函 bin Heisig's This is the character from which the element for shovel derives. Within it comes the element for snare, with the sparkler surrounding it. Koohii #1 Damn racoons ill show them. I put a snare in the bin as well as a few phosphorous sparklers so as to scare the shit out of the buggers as they rummage through my bin. Koohii #2 (thegeezer3) Damn racoons... I´ll show them. I´ll put a SNARE in the BIN as well as a few SPARKLERS so as to scare the shit out of the buggers, then hit them with a SHOVEL. Primitives bin, snare, sparkler, shovel Kunyomi: はこ、い.れる Onyomi: カン Lesson: 51 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:	bin 函 画数8 2051 Details Story Dictionary 函 bin Heisig's This is the character from which the element for shovel derives. Within it comes the element for snare, with the sparkler surrounding it. Koohii #1 Damn racoons ill show them. I put a snare in the bin as well as a few phosphorous sparklers so as to scare the shit out of the buggers as they rummage through my bin. Koohii #2 (thegeezer3) Damn racoons... I´ll show them. I´ll put a SNARE in the BIN as well as a few SPARKLERS so as to scare the shit out of the buggers, then hit them with a SHOVEL. Primitives bin, snare, sparkler, shovel Kunyomi: はこ、い.れる Onyomi: カン Lesson: 51 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:
poles Details Story Dictionary 極 poles Heisig's The poles this key word refers to are the extremities of the earth or the terminals of an electric field. The elements are: tree . . . snare . . . mouth . . . crotch . . . floor. Koohii #1 Can simplify this using decay (#1243). Then: The expedition to the poles is bad for your health, and the decay that started in your mouth spreads to your crotch – at which point you fall to the floor. Koohii #2 (modified Katsuo) Can simplify this using decay (#1243). You travel to the poles, a frozen wasteland. In desperate need of food you try to set up a snare but the tree is decayed (see story for decay (#1243)) so you catch no prey. The brutal cold first attacks your mouth as your lips turn blue, then your crotch also gets cold as your body fails; finally you fall to the floor. Primitives poles, decay, tree, wood, snare, mouth, crotch, one, floor 究極(きゅうきょく): ultimate, final, eventual 極端(きょくたん): extreme, extremity 極めて(きわめて): exceedingly, extremely 極楽(ごくらく): paradise 両極(りょうきょく): both extremities, north and south poles, positive and negative poles 極(ごく): pole, climax, extreme, extremity, culmination, height, zenith, nadir 消極的(しょうきょくてき): passive 積極的(せっきょくてき): positive, active, proactive 南極(なんきょく): south pole, Antarctic 北極(ほっきょく): North Pole Kunyomi: きわ.める、きわ.まる、きわ.まり、きわ.み、き.める、-ぎ.め、き.まる Onyomi: キョク、ゴク Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 極限 (きょくげん), 終極 (おわりきょく), 積極的 (せっきょくてき), 極まる (きわ.まる), 極み (きわ.み), 極める (きわ.める)	poles 極 画数12 2052 Details Story Dictionary 極 poles Heisig's The poles this key word refers to are the extremities of the earth or the terminals of an electric field. The elements are: tree . . . snare . . . mouth . . . crotch . . . floor. Koohii #1 Can simplify this using decay (#1243). Then: The expedition to the poles is bad for your health, and the decay that started in your mouth spreads to your crotch – at which point you fall to the floor. Koohii #2 (modified Katsuo) Can simplify this using decay (#1243). You travel to the poles, a frozen wasteland. In desperate need of food you try to set up a snare but the tree is decayed (see story for decay (#1243)) so you catch no prey. The brutal cold first attacks your mouth as your lips turn blue, then your crotch also gets cold as your body fails; finally you fall to the floor. Primitives poles, decay, tree, wood, snare, mouth, crotch, one, floor 究極(きゅうきょく): ultimate, final, eventual 極端(きょくたん): extreme, extremity 極めて(きわめて): exceedingly, extremely 極楽(ごくらく): paradise 両極(りょうきょく): both extremities, north and south poles, positive and negative poles 極(ごく): pole, climax, extreme, extremity, culmination, height, zenith, nadir 消極的(しょうきょくてき): passive 積極的(せっきょくてき): positive, active, proactive 南極(なんきょく): south pole, Antarctic 北極(ほっきょく): North Pole Kunyomi: きわ.める、きわ.まる、きわ.まり、きわ.み、き.める、-ぎ.め、き.まる Onyomi: キョク、ゴク Lesson: 51 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 極限 (きょくげん), 終極 (おわりきょく), 積極的 (せっきょくてき), 極まる (きわ.まる), 極み (きわ.み), 極める (きわ.める)
tusk Details Story Dictionary 牙 tusk My Story This looks like a T on top of the katakana オ. T for the TUSK and Ohh for what could happen if you get to close to it. The elephant vampire used his tusk and fangs * Since this kanji has 4 strokes, you would expect that as a primitive it would also have 4 - but in fact it has 5 in the following two frames (the second stroke between divided into 2 strokes) and reverts to 4 again in frame 2056. Koohii #1 The kanji looks like an elephant with tusks. the box is the elephant´s eye. The final stroke is the tusk. Koohii #2 He stored the tusks into a box, along with the broken halberds. Primitives tusk Kunyomi: きば、は、きばへん Onyomi: ガ、ゲ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 牙 (きば)	tusk 牙 画数4 2053 Details Story Dictionary 牙 tusk My Story This looks like a T on top of the katakana オ. T for the TUSK and Ohh for what could happen if you get to close to it. The elephant vampire used his tusk and fangs * Since this kanji has 4 strokes, you would expect that as a primitive it would also have 4 - but in fact it has 5 in the following two frames (the second stroke between divided into 2 strokes) and reverts to 4 again in frame 2056. Koohii #1 The kanji looks like an elephant with tusks. the box is the elephant´s eye. The final stroke is the tusk. Koohii #2 He stored the tusks into a box, along with the broken halberds. Primitives tusk Kunyomi: きば、は、きばへん Onyomi: ガ、ゲ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 牙 (きば)
bud Details Story Dictionary 芽 bud Heisig's Flowers . . . tusk. Koohii #1 Buds while they´re still small tend to be tusk-shaped. Koohii #2 Zoo keepers are baffled as to why the tips of the elephant´s tusks keep budding into flowers. Primitives bud, flowers, tusk 発芽(はつが): burgeoning 芽(め): sprout Kunyomi: め Onyomi: ガ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 芽 (め)	bud 芽 画数8 2054 Details Story Dictionary 芽 bud Heisig's Flowers . . . tusk. Koohii #1 Buds while they´re still small tend to be tusk-shaped. Koohii #2 Zoo keepers are baffled as to why the tips of the elephant´s tusks keep budding into flowers. Primitives bud, flowers, tusk 発芽(はつが): burgeoning 芽(め): sprout Kunyomi: め Onyomi: ガ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 芽 (め)
wicked Details Story Dictionary 邪 wicked My Story *Tusks* are fastened to the *city walls* to keep out the wicked Koohii #1 The wicked queen builds her city walls out of menacing tusks. Koohii #2 As everyone knows, rhinoceroses and elephants are often killed for the value of their TUSKS. Here we see a WICKED city mayor who has had countless elephants killed just to make his CITY WALLS out of TUSKS. Primitives wicked, tusk, city walls お邪魔します(おじゃまします): Excuse me for disturbing (interrupting) you 邪魔(じゃま): obstacle, intrusion 無邪気(むじゃき): innocence, simple-mindedness 風邪(かぜ): common cold Kunyomi: よこし.ま Onyomi: ジャ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	wicked 邪 画数8 2055 Details Story Dictionary 邪 wicked My Story *Tusks* are fastened to the *city walls* to keep out the wicked Koohii #1 The wicked queen builds her city walls out of menacing tusks. Koohii #2 As everyone knows, rhinoceroses and elephants are often killed for the value of their TUSKS. Here we see a WICKED city mayor who has had countless elephants killed just to make his CITY WALLS out of TUSKS. Primitives wicked, tusk, city walls お邪魔します(おじゃまします): Excuse me for disturbing (interrupting) you 邪魔(じゃま): obstacle, intrusion 無邪気(むじゃき): innocence, simple-mindedness 風邪(かぜ): common cold Kunyomi: よこし.ま Onyomi: ジャ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"gracious Details Story Dictionary 雅 gracious Heisig's Tusk . . . an old turkey. Koohii #1 Goodness gracious! Such an elegant turkey with a tusk. This mnemonic is meant to join RtK´s keyword with a better proposition. Heisig could have used ""elegant"" here, which is not confounded so easily with graceful (#721), and accurately represents the character´s meaning (it is also the chosen keyword in Kodansha´s Kanji Learner´s Dictionary). Koohii #2 To not confuse it with grace (#606) or graceful (#721), think of the phrase ""Goodness gracious."" Like: ""Goodness gracious! A turkey with tusks!"". Primitives gracious, tusk, turkey 雅致(がち): artistry, good taste, elegance, grace Kunyomi: みや.び Onyomi: ガ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"gracious 雅 画数13 2056 Details Story Dictionary 雅 gracious Heisig's Tusk . . . an old turkey. Koohii #1 Goodness gracious! Such an elegant turkey with a tusk. This mnemonic is meant to join RtK´s keyword with a better proposition. Heisig could have used ""elegant"" here, which is not confounded so easily with graceful (#721), and accurately represents the character´s meaning (it is also the chosen keyword in Kodansha´s Kanji Learner´s Dictionary). Koohii #2 To not confuse it with grace (#606) or graceful (#721), think of the phrase ""Goodness gracious."" Like: ""Goodness gracious! A turkey with tusks!"". Primitives gracious, tusk, turkey 雅致(がち): artistry, good taste, elegance, grace Kunyomi: みや.び Onyomi: ガ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
interpretation Details Story Dictionary 釈 interpretation Heisig's Animal tracks . . . shakuhachi. Koohii #1 Animal track primitive: As expected, animal tracks were left in place of the trail of rice I´d purposely dropped the night before. EDIT - also try the footprint for a primitive meaning, the classic symbol of detective films. STORY: This shakuhachi player is so talented, he can do interpretations of animal noises too. They´re so realistic he soon has animal tracks leading straight to wherever he´s playing. Koohii #2 An interpretive dance of some kind where somebody follows animal tracks, a shakuhachi providing the soundtrack, suggesting the tracker's thoughts and intentions. Primitives explanation, animal tracks, drop, rice, shaku-hachi, flag, stick 解釈(かいしゃく): explanation, interpretation Kunyomi: とく、す.てる、ゆる.す Onyomi: シャク、セキ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	interpretation 釈 画数11 2057 Details Story Dictionary 釈 interpretation Heisig's Animal tracks . . . shakuhachi. Koohii #1 Animal track primitive: As expected, animal tracks were left in place of the trail of rice I´d purposely dropped the night before. EDIT - also try the footprint for a primitive meaning, the classic symbol of detective films. STORY: This shakuhachi player is so talented, he can do interpretations of animal noises too. They´re so realistic he soon has animal tracks leading straight to wherever he´s playing. Koohii #2 An interpretive dance of some kind where somebody follows animal tracks, a shakuhachi providing the soundtrack, suggesting the tracker's thoughts and intentions. Primitives explanation, animal tracks, drop, rice, shaku-hachi, flag, stick 解釈(かいしゃく): explanation, interpretation Kunyomi: とく、す.てる、ゆる.す Onyomi: シャク、セキ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
turn Details Story Dictionary 番 turn Heisig's This key word has been chosen for its overlay of several meanings similar to those of the kanji: a turn of duty, a round, a number, and so forth. Its composite elements: animal tracks . . . rice field. * As a primitive element, we choose the image of a pair of dice which it is your turn to throw. Koohii #1 The famers take it in turns to watch out for any animal tracks on their rice field. Koohii #2 They take turns alternating between wheat and rice in this field…　　RTK2:　バン　電話番号　でんわばんごう(telephone number). Primitives turn, dice, animal tracks, drop, rice, rice field, brains 下番(かばん): going off duty 番目(ばんめ): cardinal number suffix 順番(じゅんばん): turn (in line), order of things 当番(とうばん): being on duty 番地(ばんち): house number, address 留守番(るすばん): care-taking, caretaker, house-watching 番組(ばんぐみ): TV program 一番(いちばん): best, first, number one, a game, a round, a bout, a fall, an event (in a meet) 交番(こうばん): police box 番号(ばんごう): number, series of digits Kunyomi: つが.い Onyomi: バン Lesson: 52 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	turn 番 画数12 2058 Details Story Dictionary 番 turn Heisig's This key word has been chosen for its overlay of several meanings similar to those of the kanji: a turn of duty, a round, a number, and so forth. Its composite elements: animal tracks . . . rice field. * As a primitive element, we choose the image of a pair of dice which it is your turn to throw. Koohii #1 The famers take it in turns to watch out for any animal tracks on their rice field. Koohii #2 They take turns alternating between wheat and rice in this field…　　RTK2:　バン　電話番号　でんわばんごう(telephone number). Primitives turn, dice, animal tracks, drop, rice, rice field, brains 下番(かばん): going off duty 番目(ばんめ): cardinal number suffix 順番(じゅんばん): turn (in line), order of things 当番(とうばん): being on duty 番地(ばんち): house number, address 留守番(るすばん): care-taking, caretaker, house-watching 番組(ばんぐみ): TV program 一番(いちばん): best, first, number one, a game, a round, a bout, a fall, an event (in a meet) 交番(こうばん): police box 番号(ばんごう): number, series of digits Kunyomi: つが.い Onyomi: バン Lesson: 52 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
"hearing Details Story Dictionary 審 hearing Heisig's The hearing referred to in this character relates to trials in the courts. The elements: house . . . dice. Koohii #1 At your divorce hearing the judge tells you to roll dice to see who keeps the house. (""I can´t believe what I´m hearing!"" you say). Koohii #2 In the courthouse the judge decides your hearing with a roll of the dice. Primitives hearing, house, dice, animal tracks, drop, rice, rice field, brains 審議(しんぎ): deliberation 審査(しんさ): judging, inspection, examination, investigation 審判(しんばん): refereeing, trial, judgement, umpire, referee 不審(ふしん): incomplete understanding, doubt, question, distrust, suspicion, strangeness, infidelity 審判(しんぱん): refereeing, trial, judgement, umpire, referee Kunyomi: つまび.らか、つぶさ.に Onyomi: シン Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"hearing 審 画数15 2059 Details Story Dictionary 審 hearing Heisig's The hearing referred to in this character relates to trials in the courts. The elements: house . . . dice. Koohii #1 At your divorce hearing the judge tells you to roll dice to see who keeps the house. (""I can´t believe what I´m hearing!"" you say). Koohii #2 In the courthouse the judge decides your hearing with a roll of the dice. Primitives hearing, house, dice, animal tracks, drop, rice, rice field, brains 審議(しんぎ): deliberation 審査(しんさ): judging, inspection, examination, investigation 審判(しんばん): refereeing, trial, judgement, umpire, referee 不審(ふしん): incomplete understanding, doubt, question, distrust, suspicion, strangeness, infidelity 審判(しんぱん): refereeing, trial, judgement, umpire, referee Kunyomi: つまび.らか、つぶさ.に Onyomi: シン Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
flip Details Story Dictionary 翻 flip My Story [a drop of rice + Rice field + feathers {羽}] *A drop of rice* was stolen from a *rice field*, the farmer flipped his shit when he saw a crow's feather. used in 翻訳 (to translate) Koohii #1 Flipping the bird: After finding out the dice is crooked, you kindly present the middle feather to the dealer. Koohii #2 When the birds out the back are playing dice, they flip their feathers (not their finger) at their opponents. Primitives flip, dice, animal tracks, drop, rice, rice field, brains, feathers, wings 翻訳(ほんやく): translate Kunyomi: ひるがえ.る、ひるがえ.す Onyomi: ホン、ハン Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 翻す (ひるがえ.す), 翻る (ひるがえ.る)	flip 翻 画数18 2060 Details Story Dictionary 翻 flip My Story [a drop of rice + Rice field + feathers {羽}] *A drop of rice* was stolen from a *rice field*, the farmer flipped his shit when he saw a crow's feather. used in 翻訳 (to translate) Koohii #1 Flipping the bird: After finding out the dice is crooked, you kindly present the middle feather to the dealer. Koohii #2 When the birds out the back are playing dice, they flip their feathers (not their finger) at their opponents. Primitives flip, dice, animal tracks, drop, rice, rice field, brains, feathers, wings 翻訳(ほんやく): translate Kunyomi: ひるがえ.る、ひるがえ.す Onyomi: ホン、ハン Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 翻す (ひるがえ.す), 翻る (ひるがえ.る)
clan Details Story Dictionary 藩 clan Heisig's Flowers . . . water . . . dice. Koohii #1 This character refers to feudal clans that were abolished in 1871 (Meiji 4) in favor of prefectures (廃藩置県), and thus were predecessors of the modern prefectures. As we know from 落, flowers and water drops each have their own way of falling. This character says that clans´ location was decided in the way flowers, water drops and dice fall: at random. See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Han_%28country_subdivision%29. Koohii #2 In the particular clan depicted by this character, each member has to take his or her turn watering the flowers. Primitives clan, flowers, water, water droplets, water pistol, dice, animal tracks, drop, rice, rice field, brains Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	clan 藩 画数18 2061 Details Story Dictionary 藩 clan Heisig's Flowers . . . water . . . dice. Koohii #1 This character refers to feudal clans that were abolished in 1871 (Meiji 4) in favor of prefectures (廃藩置県), and thus were predecessors of the modern prefectures. As we know from 落, flowers and water drops each have their own way of falling. This character says that clans´ location was decided in the way flowers, water drops and dice fall: at random. See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Han_%28country_subdivision%29. Koohii #2 In the particular clan depicted by this character, each member has to take his or her turn watering the flowers. Primitives clan, flowers, water, water droplets, water pistol, dice, animal tracks, drop, rice, rice field, brains Kunyomi: Onyomi: ハン Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
fur Details Story Dictionary 毛 fur Heisig's This character simply reverses the direction of the final stroke of hand to produce fur. If you reverse your hand and put its palm down, you will have the side on which fur grows. Koohii #1 I´ve heard of people having hair on the back of their hands, but this is ridiculous! That´s not hair, that´s fur! Koohii #2 Be careful not to pet a cat the wrong way - most cats don´t like you rubbing your hand backwards over their fur. Primitives fur 毛(け): fur, hair, wool 髪の毛(かみのけ): hair (on head) 毛糸(けいと): knitting wool 毛皮(けがわ): fur, skin, pelt 毛布(もうふ): blanket 羊毛(ようもう): wool Kunyomi: け Onyomi: モウ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 毛 (け)	fur 毛 画数4 2062 Details Story Dictionary 毛 fur Heisig's This character simply reverses the direction of the final stroke of hand to produce fur. If you reverse your hand and put its palm down, you will have the side on which fur grows. Koohii #1 I´ve heard of people having hair on the back of their hands, but this is ridiculous! That´s not hair, that´s fur! Koohii #2 Be careful not to pet a cat the wrong way - most cats don´t like you rubbing your hand backwards over their fur. Primitives fur 毛(け): fur, hair, wool 髪の毛(かみのけ): hair (on head) 毛糸(けいと): knitting wool 毛皮(けがわ): fur, skin, pelt 毛布(もうふ): blanket 羊毛(ようもう): wool Kunyomi: け Onyomi: モウ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 毛 (け)
"decrease Details Story Dictionary 耗 decrease Heisig's Christmas tree . . . fur. Koohii #1 The amount of ""fur"" (needles) on a Christmas tree decreases, until it doesn´t look all that good. Koohii #2 Real fur coats and real christmas trees are dereasing the last couple of years. Plasctic chrismas trees and fake fur it is nowadays. Primitives decrease, christmas tree, fur 消耗(しょうこう): exhaustion, consumption 消耗(しょうもう): exhaustion, consumption Kunyomi: Onyomi: モウ、コウ、カウ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 消耗 (しょうもう)"	"decrease 耗 画数10 2063 Details Story Dictionary 耗 decrease Heisig's Christmas tree . . . fur. Koohii #1 The amount of ""fur"" (needles) on a Christmas tree decreases, until it doesn´t look all that good. Koohii #2 Real fur coats and real christmas trees are dereasing the last couple of years. Plasctic chrismas trees and fake fur it is nowadays. Primitives decrease, christmas tree, fur 消耗(しょうこう): exhaustion, consumption 消耗(しょうもう): exhaustion, consumption Kunyomi: Onyomi: モウ、コウ、カウ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 消耗 (しょうもう)"
tail Details Story Dictionary 尾 tail Heisig's Flag . . . fur. Koohii #1 A dog waves its furry tail like a flag. Koohii #2 A FLAG of FUR is a TAIL. Primitives tail, flag, fur 尾(お): tail, ridge 尻尾(しっぽ): tail (animal) Kunyomi: お Onyomi: ビ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 尾 (お)	tail 尾 画数7 2064 Details Story Dictionary 尾 tail Heisig's Flag . . . fur. Koohii #1 A dog waves its furry tail like a flag. Koohii #2 A FLAG of FUR is a TAIL. Primitives tail, flag, fur 尾(お): tail, ridge 尻尾(しっぽ): tail (animal) Kunyomi: お Onyomi: ビ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 尾 (お)
"home Details Story Dictionary 宅 home Heisig's House . . . lock of hair. Koohii #1 This kanji is, of course, pronounced ""taku"", and it seems the owner of this home is a little bit otaku himself. He has hung up locks of hair suruptitiously obtained from various females all over his house. A veritable hair fetishist, and certainly someone whose home you wouldn´t want to visit. Koohii #2 Home is where the hair is. Primitives home, house, lock of hair 社宅(しゃたく): company owned house 邸宅(ていたく): mansion, residence 帰宅(きたく): returning home 住宅(じゅうたく): resident, housing 宅(たく): house, home, husband お宅(おたく): your house (polite) Kunyomi: Onyomi: タク Lesson: 52 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"home 宅 画数6 2065 Details Story Dictionary 宅 home Heisig's House . . . lock of hair. Koohii #1 This kanji is, of course, pronounced ""taku"", and it seems the owner of this home is a little bit otaku himself. He has hung up locks of hair suruptitiously obtained from various females all over his house. A veritable hair fetishist, and certainly someone whose home you wouldn´t want to visit. Koohii #2 Home is where the hair is. Primitives home, house, lock of hair 社宅(しゃたく): company owned house 邸宅(ていたく): mansion, residence 帰宅(きたく): returning home 住宅(じゅうたく): resident, housing 宅(たく): house, home, husband お宅(おたく): your house (polite) Kunyomi: Onyomi: タク Lesson: 52 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
"consign Details Story Dictionary 託 consign Heisig's Words . . . lock of hair. Koohii #1 When you consign a matter to someone, you get their word and a lock of their hair (to be used in a voodoo ritual if they don´t keep their word). Koohii #2 In ""The Lord of the Rings"", Galadriel consigned a lock of her hair to Gimli the dwarf, along with some wise words. Primitives consign, say, words, keitai, mouth, lock of hair 委託(いたく): consign (goods (for sale) to a firm), entrust (person with something), commit Kunyomi: かこつ.ける、かこ.つ、かこ.つける Onyomi: タク Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"consign 託 画数10 2066 Details Story Dictionary 託 consign Heisig's Words . . . lock of hair. Koohii #1 When you consign a matter to someone, you get their word and a lock of their hair (to be used in a voodoo ritual if they don´t keep their word). Koohii #2 In ""The Lord of the Rings"", Galadriel consigned a lock of her hair to Gimli the dwarf, along with some wise words. Primitives consign, say, words, keitai, mouth, lock of hair 委託(いたく): consign (goods (for sale) to a firm), entrust (person with something), commit Kunyomi: かこつ.ける、かこ.つ、かこ.つける Onyomi: タク Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"do Details Story Dictionary 為 do Heisig's This character rightly belongs to the previous lesson, but we held it until now because of the final element, the tail feathers. After the drop at the outset, the next three strokes are completely novel and should be given special attention. Koohii #1 In this kanji, you can see 3 katakana characters: ソ, ユ, and then ユ again followed by TAIL FEATHERS. STORY: ""So (ソ) you (ユ) wanna DO it?"" ""Only if you (ユ) do"" says the female bird as she raises her TAIL FEATHERS. Koohii #2 Do me from behind, says the bird, as she shakes her tailfeathers. Primitives do, so, strange building, tail feathers 行為(こうい): act, deed, conduct 為来り(しきたり): customs その為(そのため): hence, for that reason 為さる(なさる): to do 為替(かわせ): money order, exchange 為る(する): do, try, play, practice, cost, serve as, pass, elapse 所為(せい): act, deed, one´s doing 為(ため): for, in order to 為す(なす): accomplish, do 為る(なる): change, be of use, reach to Kunyomi: ため、な.る、な.す、す.る、たり、つく.る、なり Onyomi: イ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"do 為 画数9 2067 Details Story Dictionary 為 do Heisig's This character rightly belongs to the previous lesson, but we held it until now because of the final element, the tail feathers. After the drop at the outset, the next three strokes are completely novel and should be given special attention. Koohii #1 In this kanji, you can see 3 katakana characters: ソ, ユ, and then ユ again followed by TAIL FEATHERS. STORY: ""So (ソ) you (ユ) wanna DO it?"" ""Only if you (ユ) do"" says the female bird as she raises her TAIL FEATHERS. Koohii #2 Do me from behind, says the bird, as she shakes her tailfeathers. Primitives do, so, strange building, tail feathers 行為(こうい): act, deed, conduct 為来り(しきたり): customs その為(そのため): hence, for that reason 為さる(なさる): to do 為替(かわせ): money order, exchange 為る(する): do, try, play, practice, cost, serve as, pass, elapse 所為(せい): act, deed, one´s doing 為(ため): for, in order to 為す(なす): accomplish, do 為る(なる): change, be of use, reach to Kunyomi: ため、な.る、な.す、す.る、たり、つく.る、なり Onyomi: イ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
falsehood Details Story Dictionary 偽 falsehood Heisig's Person . . . do. Koohii #1 A person who claims he didn't do something while he actually did, is telling a falsehood. Koohii #2 It depends on what your definition of do, uh, is, says Mr. T giving falsehood about his affair with a peacock. Primitives falsehood, person, do, so, strange building, tail feathers 偽造(ぎぞう): forgery, falsification, fabrication, counterfeiting Kunyomi: いつわ.る、にせ、いつわ.り Onyomi: ギ、カ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 偽る (いつわ.る), 偽 (にせ)	falsehood 偽 画数11 2068 Details Story Dictionary 偽 falsehood Heisig's Person . . . do. Koohii #1 A person who claims he didn't do something while he actually did, is telling a falsehood. Koohii #2 It depends on what your definition of do, uh, is, says Mr. T giving falsehood about his affair with a peacock. Primitives falsehood, person, do, so, strange building, tail feathers 偽造(ぎぞう): forgery, falsification, fabrication, counterfeiting Kunyomi: いつわ.る、にせ、いつわ.り Onyomi: ギ、カ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 偽る (いつわ.る), 偽 (にせ)
"apprehensive Details Story Dictionary 畏 apprehensive Heisig's Field . . . hairpin. Koohii #1 The girl was apprehensive about going home, having lost her precious hairpin in the paddy field. But then, it wasn't like she'd lost both, just ONE... Koohii #2 I ran out of Q-tips...then I noticed a hairpin lying on the counter that was about the same size as a Q-tip. I was apprehensive at first, but I thought ""what the hell"". Unfortunately I ended up stabbing my brain! Primitives apprehensive, rice field, brains, hairpin, safety-pin 畏まりました(かしこまりました): certainly! Kunyomi: おそ.れる、かしこ.まる、かしこ、かしこ.し Onyomi: イ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 畏れる (おそ.れる)"	"apprehensive 畏 画数9 2069 Details Story Dictionary 畏 apprehensive Heisig's Field . . . hairpin. Koohii #1 The girl was apprehensive about going home, having lost her precious hairpin in the paddy field. But then, it wasn't like she'd lost both, just ONE... Koohii #2 I ran out of Q-tips...then I noticed a hairpin lying on the counter that was about the same size as a Q-tip. I was apprehensive at first, but I thought ""what the hell"". Unfortunately I ended up stabbing my brain! Primitives apprehensive, rice field, brains, hairpin, safety-pin 畏まりました(かしこまりました): certainly! Kunyomi: おそ.れる、かしこ.まる、かしこ、かしこ.し Onyomi: イ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 畏れる (おそ.れる)"
long Details Story Dictionary 長 long Heisig's In line with the story of the preceding frame, the hair that needs the hairpin is long. * The primitive of this kanji has two more shapes in addition to that of the kanji itself. Above its relative primitive, it is abbreviated form will mean hair. Further abbreviated, it will mean the long, mangy mane of an animal. Koohii #1 The Geisha with long hair uses an ornate lacquered hairpin to bundle it all up. Koohii #2 The top of this one reminds me of the staple primitive. So here´s my story: The girl´s hair was so long that she had to use staples instead of hairpins. It worked, but stapling her hair to her head was kinda painful. Primitives long, hair, hairpin, safety-pin 長(おさ): chief, head 生長(せいちょう): growth, increment 長官(ちょうかん): chief, (government) secretary 長大(ちょうだい): very long, great length 長編(ちょうへん): long (e.g. novel film) 長々(ながなが): long, drawn-out, very long 年長(ねんちょう): seniority 長閑(のどか): tranquil, calm, quiet 延長(えんちょう): extension, elongation, prolongation, lengthening 議長(ぎちょう): chairman 身長(しんちょう): height (of body), stature 成長(せいちょう): growth, grow to adulthood 長期(ちょうき): long time period 長所(ちょうしょ): strong point, merit, advantage 長女(ちょうじょ): eldest daughter 長短(ちょうたん): length, long and short, advantages and disadvantages, pluses and minuses, strong and weak points, merits and demerits 長男(ちょうなん): eldest son 長方形(ちょうほうけい): rectangle, oblong 特長(とくちょう): forte, merit 長引く(ながびく): be prolonged, drag on 校長(こうちょう): principal 社長(しゃちょう): president 長い(ながい): long Kunyomi: なが.い、おさ Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 長い (なが.い)	long 長 画数8 2070 Details Story Dictionary 長 long Heisig's In line with the story of the preceding frame, the hair that needs the hairpin is long. * The primitive of this kanji has two more shapes in addition to that of the kanji itself. Above its relative primitive, it is abbreviated form will mean hair. Further abbreviated, it will mean the long, mangy mane of an animal. Koohii #1 The Geisha with long hair uses an ornate lacquered hairpin to bundle it all up. Koohii #2 The top of this one reminds me of the staple primitive. So here´s my story: The girl´s hair was so long that she had to use staples instead of hairpins. It worked, but stapling her hair to her head was kinda painful. Primitives long, hair, hairpin, safety-pin 長(おさ): chief, head 生長(せいちょう): growth, increment 長官(ちょうかん): chief, (government) secretary 長大(ちょうだい): very long, great length 長編(ちょうへん): long (e.g. novel film) 長々(ながなが): long, drawn-out, very long 年長(ねんちょう): seniority 長閑(のどか): tranquil, calm, quiet 延長(えんちょう): extension, elongation, prolongation, lengthening 議長(ぎちょう): chairman 身長(しんちょう): height (of body), stature 成長(せいちょう): growth, grow to adulthood 長期(ちょうき): long time period 長所(ちょうしょ): strong point, merit, advantage 長女(ちょうじょ): eldest daughter 長短(ちょうたん): length, long and short, advantages and disadvantages, pluses and minuses, strong and weak points, merits and demerits 長男(ちょうなん): eldest son 長方形(ちょうほうけい): rectangle, oblong 特長(とくちょう): forte, merit 長引く(ながびく): be prolonged, drag on 校長(こうちょう): principal 社長(しゃちょう): president 長い(ながい): long Kunyomi: なが.い、おさ Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 5 Compounds: 長い (なが.い)
"lengthen Details Story Dictionary 張 lengthen My Story Use your *bow* to lengthen (*long*) your shots Koohii #1 The longbow is follows the design of a standard bow, only it has been lengthened. Koohii #2 Legolas recieves spam telling him that his can lengthen his ""bow""...he smirks...he know´s it´s already long enough. Primitives lengthen, bow, long 嵩張る(かさばる): to be bulky, to be unwieldy, to grow voluminous 誇張(こちょう): exaggeration 突っ張る(つっぱる): to support, to become stiff, to become taut, to thrust (ones opponent), to stick to (ones opinion), to insist on 張り紙(はりがみ): paper patch, paper backing, poster 矢っ張り(やっぱり): also, as I thought, still, in spite of, absolutely 威張る(いばる): swagger, be proud 拡張(かくちょう): expansion, extension, enlargement, escape 緊張(きんちょう): tension, mental strain, nervousness 主張(しゅちょう): claim, request, insistence, assertion, advocacy, emphasis, contention, opinion, tenet 出張(しゅっちょう): official tour, business trip 張り切る(はりきる): be in high spirits, be full of vigor, be enthusiastic, be eager, stretch to breaking point 張る(はる): to stick, paste, put, affix, stretch, spread, strain, stick out, slap, be expensive, tighten 引っ張る(ひっぱる): pull, draw, stretch, drag 欲張り(よくばり): avarice, covetousness, greed Kunyomi: は.る、-は.り、-ば.り Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 張る (は.る)"	"lengthen 張 画数11 2071 Details Story Dictionary 張 lengthen My Story Use your *bow* to lengthen (*long*) your shots Koohii #1 The longbow is follows the design of a standard bow, only it has been lengthened. Koohii #2 Legolas recieves spam telling him that his can lengthen his ""bow""...he smirks...he know´s it´s already long enough. Primitives lengthen, bow, long 嵩張る(かさばる): to be bulky, to be unwieldy, to grow voluminous 誇張(こちょう): exaggeration 突っ張る(つっぱる): to support, to become stiff, to become taut, to thrust (ones opponent), to stick to (ones opinion), to insist on 張り紙(はりがみ): paper patch, paper backing, poster 矢っ張り(やっぱり): also, as I thought, still, in spite of, absolutely 威張る(いばる): swagger, be proud 拡張(かくちょう): expansion, extension, enlargement, escape 緊張(きんちょう): tension, mental strain, nervousness 主張(しゅちょう): claim, request, insistence, assertion, advocacy, emphasis, contention, opinion, tenet 出張(しゅっちょう): official tour, business trip 張り切る(はりきる): be in high spirits, be full of vigor, be enthusiastic, be eager, stretch to breaking point 張る(はる): to stick, paste, put, affix, stretch, spread, strain, stick out, slap, be expensive, tighten 引っ張る(ひっぱる): pull, draw, stretch, drag 欲張り(よくばり): avarice, covetousness, greed Kunyomi: は.る、-は.り、-ば.り Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 張る (は.る)"
notebook Details Story Dictionary 帳 notebook Heisig's Towel . . . long. Koohii #1 In ancient China books were rolled-up scrolls of paper. So notebooks were nothing more than long towels. Koohii #2 Students, for this class, your notebook will be a towel. Make sure it´s extra long though, we´ll have a lot of writing. Primitives notebook, towel, long 几帳面(きちょうめん): methodical, punctual, steady 帳(とばり): curtain 通帳(つうちょう): passbook 手帳(てちょう): notebook Kunyomi: とばり Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	notebook 帳 画数11 2072 Details Story Dictionary 帳 notebook Heisig's Towel . . . long. Koohii #1 In ancient China books were rolled-up scrolls of paper. So notebooks were nothing more than long towels. Koohii #2 Students, for this class, your notebook will be a towel. Make sure it´s extra long though, we´ll have a lot of writing. Primitives notebook, towel, long 几帳面(きちょうめん): methodical, punctual, steady 帳(とばり): curtain 通帳(つうちょう): passbook 手帳(てちょう): notebook Kunyomi: とばり Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
dilate Details Story Dictionary 脹 dilate Heisig's Flesh . . . long. Koohii #1 Taking Viagra let´s your blood vessels dilate...resulting in a body part getting long. Koohii #2 Staying out in the dark moonlit sky for a long time, your pupils dilate. Primitives dilate, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, long 膨脹(ぼうちょう): expansion, swelling, increase, growth Kunyomi: は.れる、ふく.らむ、ふく.れる Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	dilate 脹 画数12 2073 Details Story Dictionary 脹 dilate Heisig's Flesh . . . long. Koohii #1 Taking Viagra let´s your blood vessels dilate...resulting in a body part getting long. Koohii #2 Staying out in the dark moonlit sky for a long time, your pupils dilate. Primitives dilate, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, long 膨脹(ぼうちょう): expansion, swelling, increase, growth Kunyomi: は.れる、ふく.らむ、ふく.れる Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
hair of the head Details Story Dictionary 髪 hair of the head Heisig's Hair . . . shape . . . friend. Koohii #1 Japanese teenage girls consider the style of the hair of the head very important. If a particular style is trendy, soon they all want their own hair in the same shape as that of their friends. Koohii #2 Friends influence the length and shape of each other´s hair. Primitives hair of the head, hairstyle, hair, shape, friend 髪(かみ): hair 髪の毛(かみのけ): hair (on head) 白髪(しらが): white or grey hair, trendy hair bleaching Kunyomi: かみ Onyomi: ハツ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 髪 (かみ)	hair of the head 髪 画数14 2074 Details Story Dictionary 髪 hair of the head Heisig's Hair . . . shape . . . friend. Koohii #1 Japanese teenage girls consider the style of the hair of the head very important. If a particular style is trendy, soon they all want their own hair in the same shape as that of their friends. Koohii #2 Friends influence the length and shape of each other´s hair. Primitives hair of the head, hairstyle, hair, shape, friend 髪(かみ): hair 髪の毛(かみのけ): hair (on head) 白髪(しらが): white or grey hair, trendy hair bleaching Kunyomi: かみ Onyomi: ハツ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 髪 (かみ)
unfold Details Story Dictionary 展 unfold My Story [Flag + Salad (fence) + Kick in the nuts/Hairpin] The *flag* had been used for a picnic so when I unfolded it, bits of *salad* and *hairpins* fell out of the folds. Koohii #1 Unfold flag, take out the salad, pin the flag down with hairpins and have a picnic. Koohii #2 You use an American flag to wrap up a salad for a picnic and bind it with a hairpin. Now imagine unfolding it to open up the bounty you´ve fixed up for yourself. Primitives unfold, flag, salad, hairpin, safety-pin 進展(しんてん): progress, development 展示(てんじ): exhibition, display 展望(てんぼう): view, outlook, prospect 展開(てんかい): develop, expansion (opposite of compression) 発展(はってん): development, growth 展覧会(てんらんかい): exhibition Kunyomi: Onyomi: テン Lesson: 52 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	unfold 展 画数10 2075 Details Story Dictionary 展 unfold My Story [Flag + Salad (fence) + Kick in the nuts/Hairpin] The *flag* had been used for a picnic so when I unfolded it, bits of *salad* and *hairpins* fell out of the folds. Koohii #1 Unfold flag, take out the salad, pin the flag down with hairpins and have a picnic. Koohii #2 You use an American flag to wrap up a salad for a picnic and bind it with a hairpin. Now imagine unfolding it to open up the bounty you´ve fixed up for yourself. Primitives unfold, flag, salad, hairpin, safety-pin 進展(しんてん): progress, development 展示(てんじ): exhibition, display 展望(てんぼう): view, outlook, prospect 展開(てんかい): develop, expansion (opposite of compression) 発展(はってん): development, growth 展覧会(てんらんかい): exhibition Kunyomi: Onyomi: テン Lesson: 52 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"miss Details Story Dictionary 喪 miss Heisig's Soil . . . two mouths . . . hairpin. Hint: see spit (Frame 162). The key word carries the wide range of meanings readily associated with it: error, loss, absence, and so on. Koohii #1 I miss my parents dearly. Here they lay, under a big cross, their mouths side by side. I stick hairpins in their graves. CAREFUL: the stroke order/primitive order is: ten, L mouth, R mouth, hairpin. ""Soil"" is not drawn in its stroke order. Koohii #2 This kanji means miss as in ""miss a (dearly departed) person"", not as in ""miss a target"".　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Here the dearly departed has been buried in the ground, with her favourite hairpin in place of a gravestone, and two mourners stand around crying with open mouths. Primitives miss, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, hairpin, safety-pin, mouth2 Kunyomi: も Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 喪 (も)"	"miss 喪 画数12 2076 Details Story Dictionary 喪 miss Heisig's Soil . . . two mouths . . . hairpin. Hint: see spit (Frame 162). The key word carries the wide range of meanings readily associated with it: error, loss, absence, and so on. Koohii #1 I miss my parents dearly. Here they lay, under a big cross, their mouths side by side. I stick hairpins in their graves. CAREFUL: the stroke order/primitive order is: ten, L mouth, R mouth, hairpin. ""Soil"" is not drawn in its stroke order. Koohii #2 This kanji means miss as in ""miss a (dearly departed) person"", not as in ""miss a target"".　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Here the dearly departed has been buried in the ground, with her favourite hairpin in place of a gravestone, and two mourners stand around crying with open mouths. Primitives miss, soil, dirt, ground, mouth, hairpin, safety-pin, mouth2 Kunyomi: も Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 52 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 喪 (も)"
nest Details Story Dictionary 巣 nest Heisig's Owl . . . fruit. Koohii #1 The nest atop of a tree contains the fruit of the owl: its offspring. Koohii #2 The wise old OWL makes her nest out of FRUIT, carving out the middle for her chicks, because then it´s less work: no running back & forth to get food! Primitives nest, owl, fruit, rice field, brains, tree, wood 巣(す): nest, rookery, breeding place, beehive, cobweb, den Kunyomi: す、す.くう Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 巣 (す)	nest 巣 画数11 2077 Details Story Dictionary 巣 nest Heisig's Owl . . . fruit. Koohii #1 The nest atop of a tree contains the fruit of the owl: its offspring. Koohii #2 The wise old OWL makes her nest out of FRUIT, carving out the middle for her chicks, because then it´s less work: no running back & forth to get food! Primitives nest, owl, fruit, rice field, brains, tree, wood 巣(す): nest, rookery, breeding place, beehive, cobweb, den Kunyomi: す、す.くう Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 巣 (す)
simple Details Story Dictionary 単 simple My Story [Owl (three dots) + Rice field + Ten/Needle] It's simple for an owl to find a needle in a rice field 田, because an owl's eyesight is ten 十 times better than a human's. The key word does not connote easy or facile, but rather simple as the opposite of complex. Koohii #1 Owls are smart...for this owl everything is simple coz his brain is ten times more powerful than mine. Koohii #2 An owl´s brain is ten times smarter than other simple minded birds…　RTK2:　タン　簡単　かんたん(simple). Primitives simple, owl, rice field, brains, ten, needle 単一(たんいつ): single, simple, sole, individual, unitory 単調(たんちょう): monotony, monotone, dullness 単独(たんどく): sole, independence, single, solo (flight) 単(ひとえ): one layer, single 単位(たんい): unit, denomination, credit (in school) 単語(たんご): word, vocabulary, (usually) single-character word 単純(たんじゅん): simplicity 単数(たんすう): singular (number) 単なる(たんなる): mere, simple, sheer 単に(たんに): simply, merely, only, solely 簡単(かんたん): easy, simple Kunyomi: ひとえ Onyomi: タン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	simple 単 画数9 2078 Details Story Dictionary 単 simple My Story [Owl (three dots) + Rice field + Ten/Needle] It's simple for an owl to find a needle in a rice field 田, because an owl's eyesight is ten 十 times better than a human's. The key word does not connote easy or facile, but rather simple as the opposite of complex. Koohii #1 Owls are smart...for this owl everything is simple coz his brain is ten times more powerful than mine. Koohii #2 An owl´s brain is ten times smarter than other simple minded birds…　RTK2:　タン　簡単　かんたん(simple). Primitives simple, owl, rice field, brains, ten, needle 単一(たんいつ): single, simple, sole, individual, unitory 単調(たんちょう): monotony, monotone, dullness 単独(たんどく): sole, independence, single, solo (flight) 単(ひとえ): one layer, single 単位(たんい): unit, denomination, credit (in school) 単語(たんご): word, vocabulary, (usually) single-character word 単純(たんじゅん): simplicity 単数(たんすう): singular (number) 単なる(たんなる): mere, simple, sheer 単に(たんに): simply, merely, only, solely 簡単(かんたん): easy, simple Kunyomi: ひとえ Onyomi: タン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
war Details Story Dictionary 戦 war My Story To start a war, simply throw a spear. Koohii #1 George W. Bush´s plans for war were so SIMPLE. To him, its all just a big FIESTA. Koohii #2 So there´s this fiesta in downtown Compton. It´s a simple party, but someone invited people from the wrong gangs and the simple fiesta turns into an all-out turf war. Primitives war, simple, owl, rice field, brains, ten, needle, fiesta 戦(いくさ): war, battle, campaign, fight 休戦(きゅうせん): truce, armistice 作戦(さくせん): military or naval operations, tactics, strategy 戦災(せんさい): war damage 戦術(せんじゅつ): tactics 戦闘(せんとう): battle, fight, combat 戦力(せんりょく): war potential 挑戦(ちょうせん): challenge, defiance 敗戦(はいせん): defeat, losing a war 大戦(たいせん): great war, great battle 戦い(たたかい): battle, fight, struggle, conflict 戦う(たたかう): to fight, battle, combat, struggle against, wage war, engage in contest 戦争(せんそう): war Kunyomi: いくさ、たたか.う、おのの.く、そよぐ、わなな.く Onyomi: セン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 戦 (いくさ), 戦う (たたか.う)	war 戦 画数13 2079 Details Story Dictionary 戦 war My Story To start a war, simply throw a spear. Koohii #1 George W. Bush´s plans for war were so SIMPLE. To him, its all just a big FIESTA. Koohii #2 So there´s this fiesta in downtown Compton. It´s a simple party, but someone invited people from the wrong gangs and the simple fiesta turns into an all-out turf war. Primitives war, simple, owl, rice field, brains, ten, needle, fiesta 戦(いくさ): war, battle, campaign, fight 休戦(きゅうせん): truce, armistice 作戦(さくせん): military or naval operations, tactics, strategy 戦災(せんさい): war damage 戦術(せんじゅつ): tactics 戦闘(せんとう): battle, fight, combat 戦力(せんりょく): war potential 挑戦(ちょうせん): challenge, defiance 敗戦(はいせん): defeat, losing a war 大戦(たいせん): great war, great battle 戦い(たたかい): battle, fight, struggle, conflict 戦う(たたかう): to fight, battle, combat, struggle against, wage war, engage in contest 戦争(せんそう): war Kunyomi: いくさ、たたか.う、おのの.く、そよぐ、わなな.く Onyomi: セン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 戦 (いくさ), 戦う (たたか.う)
"Zen Details Story Dictionary 禅 Zen Heisig's Altar . . . simple. Koohii #1 Knowing ZEN’s emphasis on “nothingness,” it’s not hard to envision a ZEN ALTAR being quite clean and SIMPLE. Koohii #2 Simple-minded blond girl (see frame 1928) is very good at Zen, which isn´t surprising since she doesn´t think much. She has this bad habit of meditating perched on the main temple altar, which infuriates the Zen buddhists. When they get up to her and tell her rudely to step down the altar, she just smiles and teases them : ""Not very zen are you ?"". Who would have thought simple-minded blond girl would teach the Zen buddhists a lesson ! Primitives zen, altar, simple, owl, rice field, brains, ten, needle 禅(ぜん): Zen (Buddhism) Kunyomi: しずか、ゆず.る Onyomi: ゼン、セン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"Zen 禅 画数13 2080 Details Story Dictionary 禅 Zen Heisig's Altar . . . simple. Koohii #1 Knowing ZEN’s emphasis on “nothingness,” it’s not hard to envision a ZEN ALTAR being quite clean and SIMPLE. Koohii #2 Simple-minded blond girl (see frame 1928) is very good at Zen, which isn´t surprising since she doesn´t think much. She has this bad habit of meditating perched on the main temple altar, which infuriates the Zen buddhists. When they get up to her and tell her rudely to step down the altar, she just smiles and teases them : ""Not very zen are you ?"". Who would have thought simple-minded blond girl would teach the Zen buddhists a lesson ! Primitives zen, altar, simple, owl, rice field, brains, ten, needle 禅(ぜん): Zen (Buddhism) Kunyomi: しずか、ゆず.る Onyomi: ゼン、セン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
bullet / Play (e.g: Guitar, pian Details Story Dictionary 弾 bullet / Play (e.g: Guitar, pian My Story [Bow + Simple {単}] The *bow* was a weapon for *simple* times, but nowadays it has been replaced by bullets. Koohii #1 Hunting with a bow is too complicated. I´m switching to something simpler--using a bullet. Koohii #2 The bow was a weapon for simple times, but nowadays it has been replaced by bullets. Primitives bullet, bow, simple, owl, rice field, brains, ten, needle 弾力(だんりょく): elasticity, flexibility 爆弾(ばくだん): bomb 弾く(はじく): to flip, to snap 弾む(はずむ): to spring, to bound, to bounce, to be stimulated, to be encouraged, to get lively, to treat oneself to, to splurge on 弾(たま): bullet, shot, shell 弾く(ひく): play (piano, guitar) Kunyomi: ひ.く、-ひ.き、はず.む、たま、はじ.く、はじ.ける、ただ.す、はじ.きゆみ Onyomi: ダン、タン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 弾 (たま), 弾む (はず.む), 弾く (ひ.く)	bullet / Play (e.g: Guitar, pian 弾 画数12 2081 Details Story Dictionary 弾 bullet / Play (e.g: Guitar, pian My Story [Bow + Simple {単}] The *bow* was a weapon for *simple* times, but nowadays it has been replaced by bullets. Koohii #1 Hunting with a bow is too complicated. I´m switching to something simpler--using a bullet. Koohii #2 The bow was a weapon for simple times, but nowadays it has been replaced by bullets. Primitives bullet, bow, simple, owl, rice field, brains, ten, needle 弾力(だんりょく): elasticity, flexibility 爆弾(ばくだん): bomb 弾く(はじく): to flip, to snap 弾む(はずむ): to spring, to bound, to bounce, to be stimulated, to be encouraged, to get lively, to treat oneself to, to splurge on 弾(たま): bullet, shot, shell 弾く(ひく): play (piano, guitar) Kunyomi: ひ.く、-ひ.き、はず.む、たま、はじ.く、はじ.ける、ただ.す、はじ.きゆみ Onyomi: ダン、タン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 弾 (たま), 弾む (はず.む), 弾く (ひ.く)
cherry tree Details Story Dictionary 桜 cherry tree Heisig's Tree . . . owl . . . woman. Koohii #1 I was taking a picture of my girlfriend under the cherry tree during 花見, when an owl happened to poop on her at the exact moment the shutter snapped. It´s really my favorite picture , just don´t tell her that. Koohii #2 The tree in Japan that represents both wisdom (the owl) and femininity (the woman). This is a sakura (さくら), or cherry tree. Primitives cherry tree, tree, wood, owl, woman 桜(さくら): cherry blossom, cherry tree Kunyomi: さくら Onyomi: オウ、ヨウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 桜 (さくら)	cherry tree 桜 画数10 2082 Details Story Dictionary 桜 cherry tree Heisig's Tree . . . owl . . . woman. Koohii #1 I was taking a picture of my girlfriend under the cherry tree during 花見, when an owl happened to poop on her at the exact moment the shutter snapped. It´s really my favorite picture , just don´t tell her that. Koohii #2 The tree in Japan that represents both wisdom (the owl) and femininity (the woman). This is a sakura (さくら), or cherry tree. Primitives cherry tree, tree, wood, owl, woman 桜(さくら): cherry blossom, cherry tree Kunyomi: さくら Onyomi: オウ、ヨウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 桜 (さくら)
"animal Details Story Dictionary 獣 animal Heisig's Owl . . . rice field . . . one . . . mouth . . . chihuahua. Koohii #1 The owl looks for its prey in the rice field. It sees so many potential animals to eat but since it only has one mouth, it decides that the tasty looking chihuahua will be its meal for tonight. (adapted from Copycatken,1-9-2006). Koohii #2 I have a strange story for this one but it works. I imagine a owl getting into a rice field which serves as a boxing ring. His opponent is a little chihuahua. The fight starts, the owl takes one punch to the mouth and is out cold. In the chihuahua´s corner is that coach from Rocky saying ""Your an ANIMAL!!"". A vivid image of this story works pretty well for me. Primitives animal, owl, rice field, brains, one, mouth, chihuahua, dog, large, drop 怪獣(かいじゅう): monster 獣(けだもの): beast, brute Kunyomi: けもの、けだもの Onyomi: ジュウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 獣 (けもの)"	"animal 獣 画数16 2083 Details Story Dictionary 獣 animal Heisig's Owl . . . rice field . . . one . . . mouth . . . chihuahua. Koohii #1 The owl looks for its prey in the rice field. It sees so many potential animals to eat but since it only has one mouth, it decides that the tasty looking chihuahua will be its meal for tonight. (adapted from Copycatken,1-9-2006). Koohii #2 I have a strange story for this one but it works. I imagine a owl getting into a rice field which serves as a boxing ring. His opponent is a little chihuahua. The fight starts, the owl takes one punch to the mouth and is out cold. In the chihuahua´s corner is that coach from Rocky saying ""Your an ANIMAL!!"". A vivid image of this story works pretty well for me. Primitives animal, owl, rice field, brains, one, mouth, chihuahua, dog, large, drop 怪獣(かいじゅう): monster 獣(けだもの): beast, brute Kunyomi: けもの、けだもの Onyomi: ジュウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 獣 (けもの)"
brain Details Story Dictionary 脳 brain My Story [Moon + 3 dots + villain] The brain, the organ of the 3 (dots) Stooges, those niggas were *terrible/villainous* The brain is the nastiest part of the human body, when the *moon* arises *3 dots* linger above the *villain* knows as the Nigga who made the IB Koohii #1 The brain is the part of the body that can give you the wisdom of the owl... or the wickedness of the villain. Koohii #2 The brain is the part of the body that an owl will use to defeat the villain. Primitives brain, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, owl, villain, sheaf, shovel 首脳(しゅのう): head, brains 脳(のう): brain, memory 頭脳(ずのう): head, brains, intellect Kunyomi: のうずる Onyomi: ノウ、ドウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	brain 脳 画数11 2084 Details Story Dictionary 脳 brain My Story [Moon + 3 dots + villain] The brain, the organ of the 3 (dots) Stooges, those niggas were *terrible/villainous* The brain is the nastiest part of the human body, when the *moon* arises *3 dots* linger above the *villain* knows as the Nigga who made the IB Koohii #1 The brain is the part of the body that can give you the wisdom of the owl... or the wickedness of the villain. Koohii #2 The brain is the part of the body that an owl will use to defeat the villain. Primitives brain, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, owl, villain, sheaf, shovel 首脳(しゅのう): head, brains 脳(のう): brain, memory 頭脳(ずのう): head, brains, intellect Kunyomi: のうずる Onyomi: ノウ、ドウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
"trouble Details Story Dictionary 悩 trouble My Story [Heart (standing) + Owl (3 dots) + Terrible/villain {凶}] Too much *heart (standing)* and not enough *brain* are what cause trouble and worry in society The *state of mind* of someone who is both a night *owl*, and a *villain* is ""looking for trouble."" Koohii #1 When I am in trouble, my state of mind is on two sides: 1. The wise part of me (owl) 2. The villain part of me (villain) Think of the devil and the angel on your shoulders in a troubled situation. Koohii #2 The owl villain is the one that troubles me most of all the super-villains. He´s just so smart... you never know what he´ll do! Definitely enough to put you in a troubled state of mind. Primitives trouble, Freud, state of mind, owl, villain, sheaf, shovel 悩ましい(なやましい): seductive, melancholy, languid 悩ます(なやます): to afflict, to torment, to harass, to molest 悩み(なやみ): trouble(s), worry, distress, anguish, agony, problem 悩む(なやむ): be worried, be troubled Kunyomi: なや.む、なや.ます、なや.ましい、なやみ Onyomi: ノウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 悩ます (なや.ます), 悩む (なや.む)"	"trouble 悩 画数10 2085 Details Story Dictionary 悩 trouble My Story [Heart (standing) + Owl (3 dots) + Terrible/villain {凶}] Too much *heart (standing)* and not enough *brain* are what cause trouble and worry in society The *state of mind* of someone who is both a night *owl*, and a *villain* is ""looking for trouble."" Koohii #1 When I am in trouble, my state of mind is on two sides: 1. The wise part of me (owl) 2. The villain part of me (villain) Think of the devil and the angel on your shoulders in a troubled situation. Koohii #2 The owl villain is the one that troubles me most of all the super-villains. He´s just so smart... you never know what he´ll do! Definitely enough to put you in a troubled state of mind. Primitives trouble, Freud, state of mind, owl, villain, sheaf, shovel 悩ましい(なやましい): seductive, melancholy, languid 悩ます(なやます): to afflict, to torment, to harass, to molest 悩み(なやみ): trouble(s), worry, distress, anguish, agony, problem 悩む(なやむ): be worried, be troubled Kunyomi: なや.む、なや.ます、なや.ましい、なやみ Onyomi: ノウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 悩ます (なや.ます), 悩む (なや.む)"
"stern Details Story Dictionary 厳 stern Heisig's Owl . . . cliff . . . daring. Koohii #1 This represents a stern looking owl, perched up on a cliff. This cliff is quite famous for daring individuals to cliff dive off of, but is any of them daring enough to threaten the owl? Koohii #2 The daring mouse gets a stern look after he climbs onto the owl´s cliff...　RTK2:　ゲン　厳禁　　げんきん　(""Strickly Prohibited!"")　　　　　　　　　　　ゴン　華厳経　けごんギョウ(Avatamsaka Sutra). Primitives stern, owl, cliff, daring, spike, ear, taskmaster 厳か(おごそか): austere, majestic, dignified, stately, awful, impressive 厳密(げんみつ): strict, close 厳重(げんじゅう): strict, severe, firm, strong, secure, rigour 厳しい(きびしい): strict Kunyomi: おごそ.か、きび.しい、いか.めしい、いつくし Onyomi: ゲン、ゴン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 厳格 (げんかく), 厳重 (げんじゅう), 威厳 (いげん), 厳か (おごそ.か), 厳しい (きび.しい)"	"stern 厳 画数17 2086 Details Story Dictionary 厳 stern Heisig's Owl . . . cliff . . . daring. Koohii #1 This represents a stern looking owl, perched up on a cliff. This cliff is quite famous for daring individuals to cliff dive off of, but is any of them daring enough to threaten the owl? Koohii #2 The daring mouse gets a stern look after he climbs onto the owl´s cliff...　RTK2:　ゲン　厳禁　　げんきん　(""Strickly Prohibited!"")　　　　　　　　　　　ゴン　華厳経　けごんギョウ(Avatamsaka Sutra). Primitives stern, owl, cliff, daring, spike, ear, taskmaster 厳か(おごそか): austere, majestic, dignified, stately, awful, impressive 厳密(げんみつ): strict, close 厳重(げんじゅう): strict, severe, firm, strong, secure, rigour 厳しい(きびしい): strict Kunyomi: おごそ.か、きび.しい、いか.めしい、いつくし Onyomi: ゲン、ゴン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 厳格 (げんかく), 厳重 (げんじゅう), 威厳 (いげん), 厳か (おごそ.か), 厳しい (きび.しい)"
chain Details Story Dictionary 鎖 chain Heisig's Metal . . . little . . . shells. We have saved this character until no win order to draw attention to the visual difference between the owl and little. By now your eyes should be so accustomed to these apparently infinitesimal differences that the point is obvious. Koohii #1 The chain on this chainsaw is made of little metal shells. Koohii #2 A gold chain with small seashells hanging on it is in fashion these days. Primitives chain, metal, gold, small, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 封鎖(ふうさ): blockade, freezing (funds) 閉鎖(へいさ): closing, closure, shutdown, lockout, unsociable 鎖(くさり): chain Kunyomi: くさり、とざ.す Onyomi: サ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鎖 (くさり)	chain 鎖 画数18 2087 Details Story Dictionary 鎖 chain Heisig's Metal . . . little . . . shells. We have saved this character until no win order to draw attention to the visual difference between the owl and little. By now your eyes should be so accustomed to these apparently infinitesimal differences that the point is obvious. Koohii #1 The chain on this chainsaw is made of little metal shells. Koohii #2 A gold chain with small seashells hanging on it is in fashion these days. Primitives chain, metal, gold, small, shellfish, clam, oyster, eye, animal legs, eight 封鎖(ふうさ): blockade, freezing (funds) 閉鎖(へいさ): closing, closure, shutdown, lockout, unsociable 鎖(くさり): chain Kunyomi: くさり、とざ.す Onyomi: サ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鎖 (くさり)
raise Details Story Dictionary 挙 raise My Story You can raise *pi* to *3 decimal places* with your *hands* Koohii #1 The owl was asked to raise his hand if he needed anything, but he had a wing, not a hand! So he made a tool that looked like a hand which he used when he needed to raise his hand. For raiseing, owl has a tool hand. Koohii #2 What raises mankind above others is the wisdom of an owl, the use of tools, and his hand with an opposable thumb. (compare with reputation (#1939)). Primitives raise, owl, tool, hand 挙げる(あげる): to raise, to fly, to give (an example) 一挙に(いっきょに): at a stroke, with a single swoop 選挙(せんきょ): election Kunyomi: あ.げる、あ.がる、こぞ.る Onyomi: キョ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 挙がる (あ.がる), 挙げる (あ.げる)	raise 挙 画数10 2088 Details Story Dictionary 挙 raise My Story You can raise *pi* to *3 decimal places* with your *hands* Koohii #1 The owl was asked to raise his hand if he needed anything, but he had a wing, not a hand! So he made a tool that looked like a hand which he used when he needed to raise his hand. For raiseing, owl has a tool hand. Koohii #2 What raises mankind above others is the wisdom of an owl, the use of tools, and his hand with an opposable thumb. (compare with reputation (#1939)). Primitives raise, owl, tool, hand 挙げる(あげる): to raise, to fly, to give (an example) 一挙に(いっきょに): at a stroke, with a single swoop 選挙(せんきょ): election Kunyomi: あ.げる、あ.がる、こぞ.る Onyomi: キョ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 挙がる (あ.がる), 挙げる (あ.げる)
reputation Details Story Dictionary 誉 reputation Heisig's Owl . . . tool . . . saying. Koohii #1 This owl´s reputation skyrocketed after he created a tool in order to speak human words. Koohii #2 By word of mouth, owl-luring tool (raise (#1938)) gained a reputation of amazingly effective and reliable device. Primitives reputation, owl, tool, say, words, keitai, mouth 名誉(めいよ): honor, credit, prestige Kunyomi: ほま.れ、ほ.める Onyomi: ヨ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 誉 (ほまれ)	reputation 誉 画数13 2089 Details Story Dictionary 誉 reputation Heisig's Owl . . . tool . . . saying. Koohii #1 This owl´s reputation skyrocketed after he created a tool in order to speak human words. Koohii #2 By word of mouth, owl-luring tool (raise (#1938)) gained a reputation of amazingly effective and reliable device. Primitives reputation, owl, tool, say, words, keitai, mouth 名誉(めいよ): honor, credit, prestige Kunyomi: ほま.れ、ほ.める Onyomi: ヨ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 誉 (ほまれ)
game hunting Details Story Dictionary 猟 game hunting Heisig's Pack of wild dogs . . . owl . . . wind . . . cornstalk. Koohii #1 [game-hunting; shooting; game; bag] According to unicode.org and wwwjdic, 鼡 and 鼠 (mouse (#2065)) are variants. So, for 鼡 (which I´ll call rat) I have: an owl, flying in the wind, can easily spot a rat even if it´s hiding in the cornstalks. Now 猟 is easy: wild dogs are having fun by game-hunting rats. Koohii #2 The WILD DOGS are GAME HUNTING the OWL who flies like the WIND through the CORN STORKS. Primitives game hunting, pack of wild dogs, anemometer, owl, wind, cornstalk Kunyomi: かり、か.る Onyomi: リョウ、レフ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	game hunting 猟 画数11 2090 Details Story Dictionary 猟 game hunting Heisig's Pack of wild dogs . . . owl . . . wind . . . cornstalk. Koohii #1 [game-hunting; shooting; game; bag] According to unicode.org and wwwjdic, 鼡 and 鼠 (mouse (#2065)) are variants. So, for 鼡 (which I´ll call rat) I have: an owl, flying in the wind, can easily spot a rat even if it´s hiding in the cornstalks. Now 猟 is easy: wild dogs are having fun by game-hunting rats. Koohii #2 The WILD DOGS are GAME HUNTING the OWL who flies like the WIND through the CORN STORKS. Primitives game hunting, pack of wild dogs, anemometer, owl, wind, cornstalk Kunyomi: かり、か.る Onyomi: リョウ、レフ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
bird Details Story Dictionary 鳥 bird Heisig's Dove . . . one . . . tail feathers. This is, of course, the character from which we derived the primitive meaning of dove. Note the lengthening of the second stroke. Koohii #1 There is only one bird with such beautiful white tail feathers: the albino peakcock. Koohii #2 The BIRD let loose a WHITE ONE from it´s TAIL FEATHERS...right on my new car! Primitives bird, white, dove, one, tail feathers 鳥居(とりい): torii (Shinto shrine archway) 渡り鳥(わたりどり): migratory bird, bird of passage 小鳥(ことり): (small) bird 鳥(とり): bird, fowl, poultry Kunyomi: とり Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 鳥 (とり)	bird 鳥 画数11 2091 Details Story Dictionary 鳥 bird Heisig's Dove . . . one . . . tail feathers. This is, of course, the character from which we derived the primitive meaning of dove. Note the lengthening of the second stroke. Koohii #1 There is only one bird with such beautiful white tail feathers: the albino peakcock. Koohii #2 The BIRD let loose a WHITE ONE from it´s TAIL FEATHERS...right on my new car! Primitives bird, white, dove, one, tail feathers 鳥居(とりい): torii (Shinto shrine archway) 渡り鳥(わたりどり): migratory bird, bird of passage 小鳥(ことり): (small) bird 鳥(とり): bird, fowl, poultry Kunyomi: とり Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 鳥 (とり)
chirp Details Story Dictionary 鳴 chirp Heisig's Mouth . . . bird. Koohii #1 A chirp is quite simply the sound that comes from the mouth of birds. Koohii #2 This kanji is not limited to the chirp of a bird, but stands for the sound of any kind of animal. Picture a very weird bird that can imitate with its mouth (a bird with mouth, heh) the voice of many different animals: Meeow! Woof! Mooo! Cuack!!! (Maybe the bird has Kirby powers and obtains the abilities of the animals it eats). Primitives chirp, mouth, bird 共鳴(きょうめい): resonance, sympathy 怒鳴る(どなる): to shout, to yell 悲鳴(ひめい): shriek, scream 鳴らす(ならす): ring, sound, chime, beat 鳴る(なる): sound, ring 鳴く(なく): bark, purr, chirp, make sound (animal) Kunyomi: な.く、な.る、な.らす Onyomi: メイ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 鳴く (な.く), 鳴らす (な.らす), 鳴る (な.る)	chirp 鳴 画数14 2092 Details Story Dictionary 鳴 chirp Heisig's Mouth . . . bird. Koohii #1 A chirp is quite simply the sound that comes from the mouth of birds. Koohii #2 This kanji is not limited to the chirp of a bird, but stands for the sound of any kind of animal. Picture a very weird bird that can imitate with its mouth (a bird with mouth, heh) the voice of many different animals: Meeow! Woof! Mooo! Cuack!!! (Maybe the bird has Kirby powers and obtains the abilities of the animals it eats). Primitives chirp, mouth, bird 共鳴(きょうめい): resonance, sympathy 怒鳴る(どなる): to shout, to yell 悲鳴(ひめい): shriek, scream 鳴らす(ならす): ring, sound, chime, beat 鳴る(なる): sound, ring 鳴く(なく): bark, purr, chirp, make sound (animal) Kunyomi: な.く、な.る、な.らす Onyomi: メイ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 鳴く (な.く), 鳴らす (な.らす), 鳴る (な.る)
"crane Details Story Dictionary 鶴 crane Heisig's Turkey house . . . bird. The first element appears on only one other occasion, back in frame 609. Koohii #1 Do you know how cranes came to be? Well, they used to keep the poor bird cooped all the time. But the crane really wanted to be free, so it would always streatch its head and neck out of the coop trying to be free. Koohii #2 The original version of the ""Ugly Duckling"" was about a crane who grew up in a turkey coop. All the other birds made fun of it for not having a wattle or a snood or fanning its tail... Primitives crane, turkey house, bird Kunyomi: つる Onyomi: カク Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鶴 (つる)"	"crane 鶴 画数21 2093 Details Story Dictionary 鶴 crane Heisig's Turkey house . . . bird. The first element appears on only one other occasion, back in frame 609. Koohii #1 Do you know how cranes came to be? Well, they used to keep the poor bird cooped all the time. But the crane really wanted to be free, so it would always streatch its head and neck out of the coop trying to be free. Koohii #2 The original version of the ""Ugly Duckling"" was about a crane who grew up in a turkey coop. All the other birds made fun of it for not having a wattle or a snood or fanning its tail... Primitives crane, turkey house, bird Kunyomi: つる Onyomi: カク Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鶴 (つる)"
crow Details Story Dictionary 烏 crow Heisig's The only thing that distinguishes this character from that for bird is the omission of the one stroke that makes it white. Which is logical enough, when you consider that there are no crows of that color. Koohii #1 The book´s story is just fine, but I found a kanji dictionary explanation also interesting: As crows are all black, it´s hard to see where their eyes are (black on black), so a stroke is removed from the part in the pictograph where the eyes would be. Koohii #2 A crow is a bird, but not a white one. MEANING: write bird, but skip writing one in white. Primitives crow, drop, mouth, one, tail feathers Kunyomi: からす、いずくんぞ、なんぞ Onyomi: ウ、オ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:	crow 烏 画数10 2094 Details Story Dictionary 烏 crow Heisig's The only thing that distinguishes this character from that for bird is the omission of the one stroke that makes it white. Which is logical enough, when you consider that there are no crows of that color. Koohii #1 The book´s story is just fine, but I found a kanji dictionary explanation also interesting: As crows are all black, it´s hard to see where their eyes are (black on black), so a stroke is removed from the part in the pictograph where the eyes would be. Koohii #2 A crow is a bird, but not a white one. MEANING: write bird, but skip writing one in white. Primitives crow, drop, mouth, one, tail feathers Kunyomi: からす、いずくんぞ、なんぞ Onyomi: ウ、オ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: Compounds:
"vine Details Story Dictionary 蔦 vine Heisig's Flower . . . bird. Koohii #1 In the jungle there is a flowery vine called hedera rhombea that attracts humming birds by the dozens. They scoot around the flowers sucking up nectar off the vine. Koohii #2 Note : if you´ll remember we already have a primitive for ""ivy"", but it was completely made up from the ""square jewel"" kanji. The kanji here refers to ivy, or vine, and is used in a particular compound for ""Hedera rhombea"", which is a type of ivy native to Japan. This vine here produces a lot of flowers, and attracts many small birds, which is sure to cheer up even the most depressed Japanese gardener. Primitives vine, flowers, bird Kunyomi: つた Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"vine 蔦 画数14 2095 Details Story Dictionary 蔦 vine Heisig's Flower . . . bird. Koohii #1 In the jungle there is a flowery vine called hedera rhombea that attracts humming birds by the dozens. They scoot around the flowers sucking up nectar off the vine. Koohii #2 Note : if you´ll remember we already have a primitive for ""ivy"", but it was completely made up from the ""square jewel"" kanji. The kanji here refers to ivy, or vine, and is used in a particular compound for ""Hedera rhombea"", which is a type of ivy native to Japan. This vine here produces a lot of flowers, and attracts many small birds, which is sure to cheer up even the most depressed Japanese gardener. Primitives vine, flowers, bird Kunyomi: つた Onyomi: チョウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
pigeon Details Story Dictionary 鳩 pigeon Heisig's Baseball . . . bird. Koohii #1 Feed one pigeon and nine more birds will be swarming you immediately…　RTK2:　On list of rare or no official Chinese reading. Koohii #2 Imagine some pigeons going to see a baseball game. They would surely be the only birds there! Primitives pigeon, nine, baseball, bird Kunyomi: はと、あつ.める Onyomi: キュウ、ク Lesson: 53 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	pigeon 鳩 画数13 2096 Details Story Dictionary 鳩 pigeon Heisig's Baseball . . . bird. Koohii #1 Feed one pigeon and nine more birds will be swarming you immediately…　RTK2:　On list of rare or no official Chinese reading. Koohii #2 Imagine some pigeons going to see a baseball game. They would surely be the only birds there! Primitives pigeon, nine, baseball, bird Kunyomi: はと、あつ.める Onyomi: キュウ、ク Lesson: 53 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
chicken Details Story Dictionary 鶏 chicken Heisig's Vulture . . . husband . . . bird. Koohii #1 There are two types of birds often compared to husbands. Yes there are a few vultures out there, but most husbands are CHICKENS. 鶏 【にわとり】 (n) (domestic) chicken, (P) 鶏肉 【けいにく】 (n) chicken meat, (P). Koohii #2 The vulture´s husband is a chicken...heck...who am I to judge their interspecies love? They´re both birds so its cool. Primitives chicken, claw, vulture, husband, bird Kunyomi: にわとり、とり Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鶏 (にわとり)	chicken 鶏 画数19 2097 Details Story Dictionary 鶏 chicken Heisig's Vulture . . . husband . . . bird. Koohii #1 There are two types of birds often compared to husbands. Yes there are a few vultures out there, but most husbands are CHICKENS. 鶏 【にわとり】 (n) (domestic) chicken, (P) 鶏肉 【けいにく】 (n) chicken meat, (P). Koohii #2 The vulture´s husband is a chicken...heck...who am I to judge their interspecies love? They´re both birds so its cool. Primitives chicken, claw, vulture, husband, bird Kunyomi: にわとり、とり Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鶏 (にわとり)
island Details Story Dictionary 島 island Heisig's The bird's tail is tucked under here, because it has come to stop on a mountain to rest from its journey across the waters. Thus the kanji comes to mean an island. Koohii #1 This island is the home of the terrible mythical bird Roc. It sits mighty atop the mountain waiting for the next hapless ship to pass by. Koohii #2 Birds living on remote mountainous islands have few preditors. Tail feathers aren´t really needed are they? Evolutionary process at work!...　RTK2:　トウ　半島　はんとう(peninsula). Primitives island, bird, mountain 半島(はんとう): peninsula 列島(れっとう): chain of islands 島(しま): island Kunyomi: しま Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 島 (しま)	island 島 画数10 2098 Details Story Dictionary 島 island Heisig's The bird's tail is tucked under here, because it has come to stop on a mountain to rest from its journey across the waters. Thus the kanji comes to mean an island. Koohii #1 This island is the home of the terrible mythical bird Roc. It sits mighty atop the mountain waiting for the next hapless ship to pass by. Koohii #2 Birds living on remote mountainous islands have few preditors. Tail feathers aren´t really needed are they? Evolutionary process at work!...　RTK2:　トウ　半島　はんとう(peninsula). Primitives island, bird, mountain 半島(はんとう): peninsula 列島(れっとう): chain of islands 島(しま): island Kunyomi: しま Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 島 (しま)
warmth Details Story Dictionary 暖 warmth Heisig's Unlike the character for warm weather learned earlier (Frame 1560), this kanji and its key word can also refer to the warmth of human congeniality. Its elements are: sun . . . migrating ducks. Koohii #1 Note: Just confirming Heisig has confused these two characters. This is used primarily for weather and climate (and colours). Koohii #2 A massive group of migrating ducks is blocking the warmth of the sun as they pass over your house/barbecue/picnic. Their formation is so humongous they block the warmth for a good 10 minutes while they pass over. Mnemonic for the migrating ducks primitive : the migrating ducks stick together like the best of friends, flying together as one (fifth stroke), they are not easy prey for the great eagles / vultures. Primitives warmth, sun, day, migrating ducks, claw, vulture, one, friend 暖まる(あたたまる): to warm oneself, to sun oneself, to warm up, to get warm 暖める(あたためる): to warm, to heat 温暖(おんだん): warmth 暖房(だんぼう): heating 暖かい(あたたかい): warm, mild, genial Kunyomi: あたた.か、あたた.かい、あたた.まる、あたた.める Onyomi: ダン、ノン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 暖か (あたた.か), 暖かい (あたた.かい), 暖まる (あたた.まる), 暖める (あたた.める)	warmth 暖 画数13 2099 Details Story Dictionary 暖 warmth Heisig's Unlike the character for warm weather learned earlier (Frame 1560), this kanji and its key word can also refer to the warmth of human congeniality. Its elements are: sun . . . migrating ducks. Koohii #1 Note: Just confirming Heisig has confused these two characters. This is used primarily for weather and climate (and colours). Koohii #2 A massive group of migrating ducks is blocking the warmth of the sun as they pass over your house/barbecue/picnic. Their formation is so humongous they block the warmth for a good 10 minutes while they pass over. Mnemonic for the migrating ducks primitive : the migrating ducks stick together like the best of friends, flying together as one (fifth stroke), they are not easy prey for the great eagles / vultures. Primitives warmth, sun, day, migrating ducks, claw, vulture, one, friend 暖まる(あたたまる): to warm oneself, to sun oneself, to warm up, to get warm 暖める(あたためる): to warm, to heat 温暖(おんだん): warmth 暖房(だんぼう): heating 暖かい(あたたかい): warm, mild, genial Kunyomi: あたた.か、あたた.かい、あたた.まる、あたた.める Onyomi: ダン、ノン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 暖か (あたた.か), 暖かい (あたた.かい), 暖まる (あたた.まる), 暖める (あたた.める)
beautiful woman Details Story Dictionary 媛 beautiful woman Heisig's Woman . . . migrating ducks. Koohii #1 You want to know about a beautiful woman? There´s a woman that´s so beautiful, the birds migrate to her instead of the sun! Koohii #2 As I saw the most beautiful woman on Earth, a flock of migrating ducks passed by and let their poop fly. That just ruined the moment... Primitives beautiful woman, woman, migrating ducks, claw, vulture, one, friend Kunyomi: ひめ Onyomi: エン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 媛 (ひめ)	beautiful woman 媛 画数12 2100 Details Story Dictionary 媛 beautiful woman Heisig's Woman . . . migrating ducks. Koohii #1 You want to know about a beautiful woman? There´s a woman that´s so beautiful, the birds migrate to her instead of the sun! Koohii #2 As I saw the most beautiful woman on Earth, a flock of migrating ducks passed by and let their poop fly. That just ruined the moment... Primitives beautiful woman, woman, migrating ducks, claw, vulture, one, friend Kunyomi: ひめ Onyomi: エン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 媛 (ひめ)
abet Details Story Dictionary 援 abet Heisig's Fingers . . . migrating ducks. Koohii #1 You abet the escape of migrating ducks by pointing them the way. Koohii #2 Aiding and abetting: You are accuse of abetting a drug dealer, by smuggling drugs in migrating ducks. Of course, this means you have to stick your fingers in their mouths. Primitives abet, finger, fingers, migrating ducks, claw, vulture, one, friend 救援(きゅうえん): relief, rescue, reinforcement 援助(えんじょ): assistance, aid, support 応援(おうえん): aid, assistance, help, reinforcement, support, cheering Kunyomi: Onyomi: エン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	abet 援 画数12 2101 Details Story Dictionary 援 abet Heisig's Fingers . . . migrating ducks. Koohii #1 You abet the escape of migrating ducks by pointing them the way. Koohii #2 Aiding and abetting: You are accuse of abetting a drug dealer, by smuggling drugs in migrating ducks. Of course, this means you have to stick your fingers in their mouths. Primitives abet, finger, fingers, migrating ducks, claw, vulture, one, friend 救援(きゅうえん): relief, rescue, reinforcement 援助(えんじょ): assistance, aid, support 応援(おうえん): aid, assistance, help, reinforcement, support, cheering Kunyomi: Onyomi: エン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
loosen Details Story Dictionary 緩 loosen My Story I tied a *string* around a *crow's* neck but it got loose, and then it got loose. Koohii #1 [slacken; loosen; relax; lessen; be moderate; ease] The thread in this story is a cable line, something like a power or phone line. The thread was tense with all the migrating ducks perched on it, but got back to being slackened when the entire flock flew away. (darg_sama-modified,2-11-2005). Koohii #2 Spiderman is a slacken off. He lays around all day in the park watching migrating ducks...　RTK2:　カン　緩和　かんわ(mitigation). Primitives slacken, thread, spiderman, migrating ducks, claw, vulture, one, friend 緩和(かんわ): relief, mitigation 緩む(ゆるむ): to become loose, to slacken 緩める(ゆるめる): to loosen, to slow down 緩やか(ゆるやか): lenient 緩い(ゆるい): loose, lenient, slow Kunyomi: ゆる.い、ゆる.やか、ゆる.む、ゆる.める Onyomi: カン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 緩い (ゆる.い), 緩む (ゆる.む), 緩める (ゆる.める), 緩やか (ゆる.やか)	loosen 緩 画数15 2102 Details Story Dictionary 緩 loosen My Story I tied a *string* around a *crow's* neck but it got loose, and then it got loose. Koohii #1 [slacken; loosen; relax; lessen; be moderate; ease] The thread in this story is a cable line, something like a power or phone line. The thread was tense with all the migrating ducks perched on it, but got back to being slackened when the entire flock flew away. (darg_sama-modified,2-11-2005). Koohii #2 Spiderman is a slacken off. He lays around all day in the park watching migrating ducks...　RTK2:　カン　緩和　かんわ(mitigation). Primitives slacken, thread, spiderman, migrating ducks, claw, vulture, one, friend 緩和(かんわ): relief, mitigation 緩む(ゆるむ): to become loose, to slacken 緩める(ゆるめる): to loosen, to slow down 緩やか(ゆるやか): lenient 緩い(ゆるい): loose, lenient, slow Kunyomi: ゆる.い、ゆる.やか、ゆる.む、ゆる.める Onyomi: カン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 緩い (ゆる.い), 緩む (ゆる.む), 緩める (ゆる.める), 緩やか (ゆる.やか)
belong Details Story Dictionary 属 belong Heisig's Flag . . . gnats (see frame 563) . . . with a belt. Koohii #1 These bugs BELONG TO an extremist group promoting insect independence. They are parading the FLAG of their group, the Nationalist GNATS, and wearing explosives BELTS for their planned terrorist war. Koohii #2 This FLAG BELONGS to the terror group called the GNATS, oftern seen wearing explosive BELTS. My opinion is they all BELONG in jail. Primitives belong, flag, gnats, drop, insect, belt 所属(しょぞく): attached to, belong to 付属(ふぞく): attached, belonging, affiliated, annexed, associated, subordinate, incidental, dependent, auxiliary 金属(きんぞく): metal 属する(ぞくする): belong to, come under, be affiliated with, be subject to 附属(ふぞく): attached, belonging, affiliated, annexed, associated, subordinate, incidental, dependent, auxiliary Kunyomi: さかん、つく、やから Onyomi: ゾク、ショク Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	belong 属 画数12 2103 Details Story Dictionary 属 belong Heisig's Flag . . . gnats (see frame 563) . . . with a belt. Koohii #1 These bugs BELONG TO an extremist group promoting insect independence. They are parading the FLAG of their group, the Nationalist GNATS, and wearing explosives BELTS for their planned terrorist war. Koohii #2 This FLAG BELONGS to the terror group called the GNATS, oftern seen wearing explosive BELTS. My opinion is they all BELONG in jail. Primitives belong, flag, gnats, drop, insect, belt 所属(しょぞく): attached to, belong to 付属(ふぞく): attached, belonging, affiliated, annexed, associated, subordinate, incidental, dependent, auxiliary 金属(きんぞく): metal 属する(ぞくする): belong to, come under, be affiliated with, be subject to 附属(ふぞく): attached, belonging, affiliated, annexed, associated, subordinate, incidental, dependent, auxiliary Kunyomi: さかん、つく、やから Onyomi: ゾク、ショク Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
entrust Details Story Dictionary 嘱 entrust Heisig's Mouth . . . belong. Koohii #1 Entrust is to confer trust in someone else. My mouth belongs to you and your secret is safely entrusted with me. Koohii #2 If you entrust me with something, my mouth belongs to you. Primitives entrust, mouth, belong, flag, gnats, drop, insect, belt Kunyomi: しょく.する、たの.む Onyomi: ショク Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	entrust 嘱 画数15 2104 Details Story Dictionary 嘱 entrust Heisig's Mouth . . . belong. Koohii #1 Entrust is to confer trust in someone else. My mouth belongs to you and your secret is safely entrusted with me. Koohii #2 If you entrust me with something, my mouth belongs to you. Primitives entrust, mouth, belong, flag, gnats, drop, insect, belt Kunyomi: しょく.する、たの.む Onyomi: ショク Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"accidentally Details Story Dictionary 偶 accidentally My Story A person with /*ninja turtle shell*/ accidentally straight up MUlested George Micheal Koohii #1 Mr. T accidentially stepped on Jiminy Cricket (a brainy insect, with a belt sort of sash to hold his ""conscience"" badge). Koohii #2 Mr. T accidentally steps on Jiminy Cricket. // Primitive: right side: Talking cricket = Jiminy Cricket, a brainy insect with a belt to whip little kids who misbehave. Primitives accidentally, person, talking cricket, brains, insect, belt 偶(たま): even number, couple, man and wife, friend, same kind, doll, occasional, rare 偶に(たまに): occasionally, once in a while 配偶者(はいぐうしゃ): spouse, wife, husband 偶数(ぐうすう): even number 偶然(ぐうぜん): chance, accident, fortuity, unexpectedly, suddenly 偶々(たまたま): casually, unexpectedly, accidentally, by chance Kunyomi: たま Onyomi: グウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"accidentally 偶 画数11 2105 Details Story Dictionary 偶 accidentally My Story A person with /*ninja turtle shell*/ accidentally straight up MUlested George Micheal Koohii #1 Mr. T accidentially stepped on Jiminy Cricket (a brainy insect, with a belt sort of sash to hold his ""conscience"" badge). Koohii #2 Mr. T accidentally steps on Jiminy Cricket. // Primitive: right side: Talking cricket = Jiminy Cricket, a brainy insect with a belt to whip little kids who misbehave. Primitives accidentally, person, talking cricket, brains, insect, belt 偶(たま): even number, couple, man and wife, friend, same kind, doll, occasional, rare 偶に(たまに): occasionally, once in a while 配偶者(はいぐうしゃ): spouse, wife, husband 偶数(ぐうすう): even number 偶然(ぐうぜん): chance, accident, fortuity, unexpectedly, suddenly 偶々(たまたま): casually, unexpectedly, accidentally, by chance Kunyomi: たま Onyomi: グウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
interview Details Story Dictionary 遇 interview Heisig's Talking Cricket . . . road. Koohii #1 On the road to my interview I accidentally bump into Jiminy Cricket who gives me some good advice. Koohii #2 I was finally able to score an interview with the wisest being around: Jiminy Cricket. However, his schedule is really packed, so they had to squeeze me in while his tour bus rode between gigs. In fact, it was really short---after a few miles I was kicked out of the bus and stranded in the middle of the interstate. But man, it was worth it! Primitives interview, talking cricket, brains, insect, belt, road 境遇(きょうぐう): environment, circumstances 待遇(たいぐう): treatment, reception Kunyomi: あ.う Onyomi: グウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	interview 遇 画数12 2106 Details Story Dictionary 遇 interview Heisig's Talking Cricket . . . road. Koohii #1 On the road to my interview I accidentally bump into Jiminy Cricket who gives me some good advice. Koohii #2 I was finally able to score an interview with the wisest being around: Jiminy Cricket. However, his schedule is really packed, so they had to squeeze me in while his tour bus rode between gigs. In fact, it was really short---after a few miles I was kicked out of the bus and stranded in the middle of the interstate. But man, it was worth it! Primitives interview, talking cricket, brains, insect, belt, road 境遇(きょうぐう): environment, circumstances 待遇(たいぐう): treatment, reception Kunyomi: あ.う Onyomi: グウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"foolish Details Story Dictionary 愚 foolish Heisig's Talking Cricket . . . heart. Koohii #1 Don´t be foolish! says Jiminy Cricket as he lashes you with his belt. Follow logic, like me, not your heart. Koohii #2 I simply imagine Jiminy Cricket jumping all over the place, like a mad man, yelling ""yeeeeehaaaaa!"". Maybe he just fell in love? Mnemonic - ""Jiminy Cricket has a foolish heart"". Primitives foolish, talking cricket, brains, insect, belt, heart 愚か(おろか): foolish, stupid 愚痴(ぐち): idle complaint, grumble Kunyomi: おろ.か Onyomi: グ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 愚か (おろ.か)"	"foolish 愚 画数13 2107 Details Story Dictionary 愚 foolish Heisig's Talking Cricket . . . heart. Koohii #1 Don´t be foolish! says Jiminy Cricket as he lashes you with his belt. Follow logic, like me, not your heart. Koohii #2 I simply imagine Jiminy Cricket jumping all over the place, like a mad man, yelling ""yeeeeehaaaaa!"". Maybe he just fell in love? Mnemonic - ""Jiminy Cricket has a foolish heart"". Primitives foolish, talking cricket, brains, insect, belt, heart 愚か(おろか): foolish, stupid 愚痴(ぐち): idle complaint, grumble Kunyomi: おろ.か Onyomi: グ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 愚か (おろ.か)"
corner Details Story Dictionary 隅 corner Heisig's Pinnacle . . . Talking Cricket. Koohii #1 If you behave badly at THE PINNACLE, JIMINY CRICKET will send you to sit in the corner. Koohii #2 Oh how the pious fall from their lofty pinnacles! Jiminy Cricket now deals drugs on the street corner. Primitives corner, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, talking cricket, brains, insect, belt 隅(すみ): corner Kunyomi: すみ Onyomi: グウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 隅 (すみ)	corner 隅 画数12 2108 Details Story Dictionary 隅 corner Heisig's Pinnacle . . . Talking Cricket. Koohii #1 If you behave badly at THE PINNACLE, JIMINY CRICKET will send you to sit in the corner. Koohii #2 Oh how the pious fall from their lofty pinnacles! Jiminy Cricket now deals drugs on the street corner. Primitives corner, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, talking cricket, brains, insect, belt 隅(すみ): corner Kunyomi: すみ Onyomi: グウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 隅 (すみ)
inverted Details Story Dictionary 逆 inverted Heisig's Mountain goat . . . road. Koohii #1 There´s a road that´s been inverted- it´s gone from horizontal to directly vertical! The only beast that could possibly climb it is a mountain goat of course. Koohii #2 This reminds me of a cartoon I saw once, perhaps it was with Donald Duck. he is startled and furious when he chases this mountain billygoat further and further up the mountain road, untill the angle is so steep that he finds himself inverted. And falls down, while the goat stands solidly placed inverted and laughs a goaty laughter as Donald plumments and makes that typical Donald shaped cartoon crater at the bottom. Primitives inverted, mountain goat, horns, mountain, road 逆転(ぎゃくてん): (sudden) change, reversal, turn-around, coming from behind (baseball) 逆立ち(さかだち): handstand, headstand 逆上る(さかのぼる): to go back, to go upstream, to make retroactive 吃逆(しゃっくり): hiccough, hiccup 逆(ぎゃく): reverse, opposite 逆さ(さかさ): reverse, inversion, upside down 逆様(さかさま): inversion, upside down 逆らう(さからう): go against, oppose, disobey, defy Kunyomi: さか、さか.さ、さか.らう Onyomi: ギャク、ゲキ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 逆 (さか), 逆らう (さか.らう)	inverted 逆 画数9 2109 Details Story Dictionary 逆 inverted Heisig's Mountain goat . . . road. Koohii #1 There´s a road that´s been inverted- it´s gone from horizontal to directly vertical! The only beast that could possibly climb it is a mountain goat of course. Koohii #2 This reminds me of a cartoon I saw once, perhaps it was with Donald Duck. he is startled and furious when he chases this mountain billygoat further and further up the mountain road, untill the angle is so steep that he finds himself inverted. And falls down, while the goat stands solidly placed inverted and laughs a goaty laughter as Donald plumments and makes that typical Donald shaped cartoon crater at the bottom. Primitives inverted, mountain goat, horns, mountain, road 逆転(ぎゃくてん): (sudden) change, reversal, turn-around, coming from behind (baseball) 逆立ち(さかだち): handstand, headstand 逆上る(さかのぼる): to go back, to go upstream, to make retroactive 吃逆(しゃっくり): hiccough, hiccup 逆(ぎゃく): reverse, opposite 逆さ(さかさ): reverse, inversion, upside down 逆様(さかさま): inversion, upside down 逆らう(さからう): go against, oppose, disobey, defy Kunyomi: さか、さか.さ、さか.らう Onyomi: ギャク、ゲキ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 逆 (さか), 逆らう (さか.らう)
model Details Story Dictionary 塑 model Heisig's This kanji depicts the art of modeling clay or wood into a figure of your choice. The elements for composing it are: mountain goat . . . moon . . . soil. Koohii #1 This guy is such a gifted sculptor. He can model a MOUNTAIN GOAT and a MOON with just SOIL mold. Koohii #2 A legend says that if you model a mountain goat (with tail and everything) from dirt and leave to the light of the moon on the first day of the month (#2846), the dirt will became flesh. (blackstockc). Primitives model, first day of the month, mountain goat, horns, mountain, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, soil, dirt, ground Kunyomi: でく Onyomi: ソ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	model 塑 画数13 2110 Details Story Dictionary 塑 model Heisig's This kanji depicts the art of modeling clay or wood into a figure of your choice. The elements for composing it are: mountain goat . . . moon . . . soil. Koohii #1 This guy is such a gifted sculptor. He can model a MOUNTAIN GOAT and a MOON with just SOIL mold. Koohii #2 A legend says that if you model a mountain goat (with tail and everything) from dirt and leave to the light of the moon on the first day of the month (#2846), the dirt will became flesh. (blackstockc). Primitives model, first day of the month, mountain goat, horns, mountain, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, soil, dirt, ground Kunyomi: でく Onyomi: ソ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
go upstream Details Story Dictionary 遡 go upstream Heisig's Mountain goat . . . moon . . . road. Koohii #1 You decide to go salmon fishing, so you ride a mountain goat to the top of the road. Under the light of the moon, as it's illegal, you catch the salmon going upstream. Koohii #2 In this kanji we see a mountain goat that decided to go upstream along a road, but for some reason it will only go upstream when the full moon is up. It's actually stubborn like a mountain goat about not going upstream along the road at any other period of time. The road itself is also very confused about this. Primitives go upstream, first day of the month, mountain goat, horns, mountain, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, road 遡る(さかのぼる): go back, go upstream, make retroactive Kunyomi: さかのぼ.る Onyomi: ソ、サク Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 遡る (さかのぼ.る)	go upstream 遡 画数13 2111 Details Story Dictionary 遡 go upstream Heisig's Mountain goat . . . moon . . . road. Koohii #1 You decide to go salmon fishing, so you ride a mountain goat to the top of the road. Under the light of the moon, as it's illegal, you catch the salmon going upstream. Koohii #2 In this kanji we see a mountain goat that decided to go upstream along a road, but for some reason it will only go upstream when the full moon is up. It's actually stubborn like a mountain goat about not going upstream along the road at any other period of time. The road itself is also very confused about this. Primitives go upstream, first day of the month, mountain goat, horns, mountain, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, road 遡る(さかのぼる): go back, go upstream, make retroactive Kunyomi: さかのぼ.る Onyomi: ソ、サク Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 遡る (さかのぼ.る)
"Mount Details Story Dictionary 岡 Mount Heisig's Here we see a mountain goat ""mounted"" under a glass canopy. In this and the following frames, think of a particular Mount you know. Koohii #1 White mount , Fuji mount , olympus mount whatever ....The choice is yours but wherever you go they sell those snowglobe souvenir : under a GLASS HOOD you can see the mount with a MOUTAIN GOAT standing on top of it .... So kitsch you just can´t forget it . Koohii #2 This has the same meaning as 丘, so my ""Mount"" is a hill with mountain goats on it under a glass canopy. It´s obviously an effort by the locals to add some Mount atmosphere to their hill. As a primitive, it has the meaning ""sturdy"" (really), which Heisig has not used for some reason, but I will. The glass canopy must be pretty sturdy to keep the goats inside (bulletproof glass, I´m sure). Primitives mount, glass canopy, hood, mountain goat, horns, mountain Kunyomi: おか Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 岡 (おか)"	"Mount 岡 画数8 2112 Details Story Dictionary 岡 Mount Heisig's Here we see a mountain goat ""mounted"" under a glass canopy. In this and the following frames, think of a particular Mount you know. Koohii #1 White mount , Fuji mount , olympus mount whatever ....The choice is yours but wherever you go they sell those snowglobe souvenir : under a GLASS HOOD you can see the mount with a MOUTAIN GOAT standing on top of it .... So kitsch you just can´t forget it . Koohii #2 This has the same meaning as 丘, so my ""Mount"" is a hill with mountain goats on it under a glass canopy. It´s obviously an effort by the locals to add some Mount atmosphere to their hill. As a primitive, it has the meaning ""sturdy"" (really), which Heisig has not used for some reason, but I will. The glass canopy must be pretty sturdy to keep the goats inside (bulletproof glass, I´m sure). Primitives mount, glass canopy, hood, mountain goat, horns, mountain Kunyomi: おか Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 岡 (おか)"
steel Details Story Dictionary 鋼 steel Heisig's Metal . . . Mount. Koohii #1 Mount Fuji is completely made up of a metal known as steel. Koohii #2 Ancient shamans predicted a time when there would be Mounts made of metal. The steel skyscrapers of today…　　　　　　　　RTK2: 　コウ　鋼鉄　こうてつ(steel)…　Semi-Pure Group:　綱1963　(ｺﾞｳ): 剛1964. Primitives steel, metal, gold, mount 鉄鋼(てっこう): iron and steel Kunyomi: はがね Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鋼 (はがね)	steel 鋼 画数16 2113 Details Story Dictionary 鋼 steel Heisig's Metal . . . Mount. Koohii #1 Mount Fuji is completely made up of a metal known as steel. Koohii #2 Ancient shamans predicted a time when there would be Mounts made of metal. The steel skyscrapers of today…　　　　　　　　RTK2: 　コウ　鋼鉄　こうてつ(steel)…　Semi-Pure Group:　綱1963　(ｺﾞｳ): 剛1964. Primitives steel, metal, gold, mount 鉄鋼(てっこう): iron and steel Kunyomi: はがね Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鋼 (はがね)
hawser Details Story Dictionary 綱 hawser Heisig's Thread . . . Mount. Koohii #1 A sturdy thread is equally obviously hawser (heavy rope). (see previous frame). Koohii #2 Spiderman saves Japan from floating away by tying Mt. Fuji to mainland Asia using a hawser made of web. Primitives hawser, thread, spiderman, mount 横綱(よこづな): sumo grand champion 綱(つな): rope Kunyomi: つな Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 綱 (つな)	hawser 綱 画数14 2114 Details Story Dictionary 綱 hawser Heisig's Thread . . . Mount. Koohii #1 A sturdy thread is equally obviously hawser (heavy rope). (see previous frame). Koohii #2 Spiderman saves Japan from floating away by tying Mt. Fuji to mainland Asia using a hawser made of web. Primitives hawser, thread, spiderman, mount 横綱(よこづな): sumo grand champion 綱(つな): rope Kunyomi: つな Onyomi: コウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 綱 (つな)
sturdy Details Story Dictionary 剛 sturdy Heisig's Mount . . . saber. Koohii #1 Mount everest is very sturdy, you can hit it all day with a saber and it wont even wobble. Koohii #2 Anything sturdy in Japan is associated with Mount Fuji. Perhaps this is because it´s symmetry is believed to make it rather sturdy itself, unlike all those crooked mountains that are around and tend to fall apart (think rock slides, avalanches, etc.). Here we see Sturdy-brand sabers with Mount Fuji engraved on the blade. Primitives sturdy, mount, sword, sabre, saber Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゴウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	sturdy 剛 画数10 2115 Details Story Dictionary 剛 sturdy Heisig's Mount . . . saber. Koohii #1 Mount everest is very sturdy, you can hit it all day with a saber and it wont even wobble. Koohii #2 Anything sturdy in Japan is associated with Mount Fuji. Perhaps this is because it´s symmetry is believed to make it rather sturdy itself, unlike all those crooked mountains that are around and tend to fall apart (think rock slides, avalanches, etc.). Here we see Sturdy-brand sabers with Mount Fuji engraved on the blade. Primitives sturdy, mount, sword, sabre, saber Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゴウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
tin can Details Story Dictionary 缶 tin can Heisig's Though the meaning has no reference to animals, the parts do: horse with a mountain underneath. Koohii #1 Horses kept in the mountains have a unique savory taste. At least so the text on this tin can would have us believe, which contains 100% authentic mountain horse. Koohii #2 The starving horse, stranded on the mountain, is forced to eat a tasty tin can. Primitives tin can, noon, sign of the horse, shovel 缶(かん): can, tin 缶詰(かんづめ): canning, canned goods, tin can 薬缶(やかん): kettle Kunyomi: かま Onyomi: カン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	tin can 缶 画数6 2116 Details Story Dictionary 缶 tin can Heisig's Though the meaning has no reference to animals, the parts do: horse with a mountain underneath. Koohii #1 Horses kept in the mountains have a unique savory taste. At least so the text on this tin can would have us believe, which contains 100% authentic mountain horse. Koohii #2 The starving horse, stranded on the mountain, is forced to eat a tasty tin can. Primitives tin can, noon, sign of the horse, shovel 缶(かん): can, tin 缶詰(かんづめ): canning, canned goods, tin can 薬缶(やかん): kettle Kunyomi: かま Onyomi: カン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
pottery Details Story Dictionary 陶 pottery Heisig's Pinnacle . . . bound up . . . tin can. Koohii #1 Pottery is used for food preservation, the pinnacle of which today is food bound up in tin cans. Koohii #2 This chinese man was making the best china pottery in all of ... China. For some reason he insisted on working at the top of a pinnacle, away from the distractions of the world. He kept in touch with the local people, and took orders, through bound tin cans (tin cans bound with rope, the children's version of the telephone). Primitives pottery, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, bound up, tin can, noon, sign of the horse, shovel 鬱陶しい(うっとうしい): gloomy, depressing 陶器(とうき): pottery, ceramics Kunyomi: Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	pottery 陶 画数11 2117 Details Story Dictionary 陶 pottery Heisig's Pinnacle . . . bound up . . . tin can. Koohii #1 Pottery is used for food preservation, the pinnacle of which today is food bound up in tin cans. Koohii #2 This chinese man was making the best china pottery in all of ... China. For some reason he insisted on working at the top of a pinnacle, away from the distractions of the world. He kept in touch with the local people, and took orders, through bound tin cans (tin cans bound with rope, the children's version of the telephone). Primitives pottery, pinnacle, parthenon, acropolis, bound up, tin can, noon, sign of the horse, shovel 鬱陶しい(うっとうしい): gloomy, depressing 陶器(とうき): pottery, ceramics Kunyomi: Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
swing Details Story Dictionary 揺 swing Heisig's Fingers . . . condor. Koohii #1 Primitive: A condor is like a vulture but twice the size and lives in mountainous regions (+1 Elphalpo). Story: I swing my fingers back and forth, trying to fend off the attacking condor. Koohii #2 For the condor primitive: A condor is like a vulture, but twice as big and it lives near mountains (a suitable place for such a majestic bird). For swing: I´m sitting on a swing when a condor comes by and picks up the whole swing set with its big finger-like claws and now I´m swinging in mid-air. Weeeeeeeee!!!!! Primitives swing, finger, fingers, condor, claw, vulture, king, mountain 動揺(どうよう): disturbance, unrest, shaking, trembling, pitching, rolling, oscillation, agitation, excitement, commotion 揺さぶる(ゆさぶる): to shake, to jolt, to rock, to swing 揺らぐ(ゆらぐ): to swing, to sway, to shake, to tremble 揺れる(ゆれる): shake, quake Kunyomi: ゆ.れる、ゆ.る、ゆ.らぐ、ゆ.るぐ、ゆ.する、ゆ.さぶる、ゆ.すぶる、うご.く Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 揺さぶる (ゆ.さぶる), 揺すぶる (ゆ.すぶる), 揺する (ゆ.する), 揺らぐ (ゆ.らぐ), 揺る (ゆ.る), 揺るぐ (ゆ.るぐ), 揺れる (ゆ.れる)	swing 揺 画数12 2118 Details Story Dictionary 揺 swing Heisig's Fingers . . . condor. Koohii #1 Primitive: A condor is like a vulture but twice the size and lives in mountainous regions (+1 Elphalpo). Story: I swing my fingers back and forth, trying to fend off the attacking condor. Koohii #2 For the condor primitive: A condor is like a vulture, but twice as big and it lives near mountains (a suitable place for such a majestic bird). For swing: I´m sitting on a swing when a condor comes by and picks up the whole swing set with its big finger-like claws and now I´m swinging in mid-air. Weeeeeeeee!!!!! Primitives swing, finger, fingers, condor, claw, vulture, king, mountain 動揺(どうよう): disturbance, unrest, shaking, trembling, pitching, rolling, oscillation, agitation, excitement, commotion 揺さぶる(ゆさぶる): to shake, to jolt, to rock, to swing 揺らぐ(ゆらぐ): to swing, to sway, to shake, to tremble 揺れる(ゆれる): shake, quake Kunyomi: ゆ.れる、ゆ.る、ゆ.らぐ、ゆ.るぐ、ゆ.する、ゆ.さぶる、ゆ.すぶる、うご.く Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 揺さぶる (ゆ.さぶる), 揺すぶる (ゆ.すぶる), 揺する (ゆ.する), 揺らぐ (ゆ.らぐ), 揺る (ゆ.る), 揺るぐ (ゆ.るぐ), 揺れる (ゆ.れる)
"Noh chanting Details Story Dictionary 謡 Noh chanting Heisig's Words . . . condor. Koohii #1 Noh chanting?!? I meant ""NO CHANTING!"" Now all you, just shut up! Not another word! Don´t you know that chanting can provoke attacks from the local condor? So, no chanting, and especially no Noh chanting. Koohii #2 Picture guy dressed in a condor mask up on stage during Noh performance chanting some words nobody understands. Primitives noh chanting, say, words, keitai, mouth, condor, claw, vulture, king, mountain 歌謡(かよう): song, ballad 民謡(みんよう): folk song, popular song Kunyomi: うた.い、うた.う Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 謡う (うた.う), 謡 (うたい)"	"Noh chanting 謡 画数16 2119 Details Story Dictionary 謡 Noh chanting Heisig's Words . . . condor. Koohii #1 Noh chanting?!? I meant ""NO CHANTING!"" Now all you, just shut up! Not another word! Don´t you know that chanting can provoke attacks from the local condor? So, no chanting, and especially no Noh chanting. Koohii #2 Picture guy dressed in a condor mask up on stage during Noh performance chanting some words nobody understands. Primitives noh chanting, say, words, keitai, mouth, condor, claw, vulture, king, mountain 歌謡(かよう): song, ballad 民謡(みんよう): folk song, popular song Kunyomi: うた.い、うた.う Onyomi: ヨウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 謡う (うた.う), 謡 (うたい)"
"gloom Details Story Dictionary 鬱 gloom Heisig's Learning this character will take a little doing. Before we start, it is a good idea to keep the key word distinct from melancholy (Frame 663), with which it combines to create the psychological condition of depression (a metaphor based on the hollow or sinking of the material depression we met in Frame 1421). The picture of gloom begins with a small grove of trees, under which we see a crown made out of used tin cans. Next (the lower half of the kanji) we find a combination that appears only a few times in modern characters and only once in those treated in the volumes of Remembering the Kanji. It is composed of a shovel with a sheaf dotted with small drops on all sides. Think of it as a large scoop shovel attached to the front of a bulldozer, whose driver is singing: ♪ ""Bulldozing in the sheaves, bulldozing in the sheaves..."" ♪ The drops represent the chaff flying about as the sheaves are tossed about by the heavy machinery. There is someone sitting on the ground alongside, watching as the machinery makes its way around the neighboring farmland - and it's you, wearing your tin-can crown. You feel overwhelmed by the impending doom as the invasion of agro-business draws closer and closer to the grove, the only patch of woods that remains of what once was a vast forest. The whole scene represents a re-shaping of the natural environment that brings the heavy weight of gloom down upon you. A bit much, perhaps, but there are enough elements to allow for any number of other combinations. Koohii #1 The pixie, wearing a tin can crown, watches from the middle of the grove, the sparkling villain approach. She sits down in gloom wondering if she belongs amongst the trees, for she has never seen such a beautiful shape. Koohii #2 The context of gloom here refers to an environmental disaster that humans make. The story begins at a GROVE with TIN CANS shaped like CROWNS which are really soda cans. They belonged to workers who bulldozes (or SHOVELS) lots and lots of SHEAVES with DROPS of its pieces. Afar, a boy is SITTING while watching the workers reSHAPING the environment. His face now has a very gloomy expression. Kunyomi: うっ.する、 しげ.る、 ふさ.ぐ Onyomi: ウツ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"	"gloom 鬱 画数29 2120 Details Story Dictionary 鬱 gloom Heisig's Learning this character will take a little doing. Before we start, it is a good idea to keep the key word distinct from melancholy (Frame 663), with which it combines to create the psychological condition of depression (a metaphor based on the hollow or sinking of the material depression we met in Frame 1421). The picture of gloom begins with a small grove of trees, under which we see a crown made out of used tin cans. Next (the lower half of the kanji) we find a combination that appears only a few times in modern characters and only once in those treated in the volumes of Remembering the Kanji. It is composed of a shovel with a sheaf dotted with small drops on all sides. Think of it as a large scoop shovel attached to the front of a bulldozer, whose driver is singing: ♪ ""Bulldozing in the sheaves, bulldozing in the sheaves..."" ♪ The drops represent the chaff flying about as the sheaves are tossed about by the heavy machinery. There is someone sitting on the ground alongside, watching as the machinery makes its way around the neighboring farmland - and it's you, wearing your tin-can crown. You feel overwhelmed by the impending doom as the invasion of agro-business draws closer and closer to the grove, the only patch of woods that remains of what once was a vast forest. The whole scene represents a re-shaping of the natural environment that brings the heavy weight of gloom down upon you. A bit much, perhaps, but there are enough elements to allow for any number of other combinations. Koohii #1 The pixie, wearing a tin can crown, watches from the middle of the grove, the sparkling villain approach. She sits down in gloom wondering if she belongs amongst the trees, for she has never seen such a beautiful shape. Koohii #2 The context of gloom here refers to an environmental disaster that humans make. The story begins at a GROVE with TIN CANS shaped like CROWNS which are really soda cans. They belonged to workers who bulldozes (or SHOVELS) lots and lots of SHEAVES with DROPS of its pieces. Afar, a boy is SITTING while watching the workers reSHAPING the environment. His face now has a very gloomy expression. Kunyomi: うっ.する、 しげ.る、 ふさ.ぐ Onyomi: ウツ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:"
concerning Details Story Dictionary 就 concerning My Story [Capital {京} + dog (not quite, better kanji is {尤})] In the *Capital* I saw *a dog* with one human leg, quite concerning. Koohii #1 In the capital they have been having hearings concerning bioethics and bioengineering they call as their first witness a chihuahua with one human leg. Koohii #2 Ahem...CONCERNING your recent science fair project, it was a CAPITAL idea, but the CHIHUAHUA with a HUMAN LEG is freaking out the other contestants! Primitives concerning, capital, tall, top hat, mouth, small, little, understandably, chihuahua with one human leg 就業(しゅうぎょう): employment, starting work 就任(しゅうにん): inauguration 就職(しゅうしょく): finding employment, inauguration 就く(つく): settle in (place), take (seat, position), study (under teacher) Kunyomi: つ.く、つ.ける Onyomi: シュウ、ジュ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 就任 (しゅうにん), 就寝 (しゅうしん), 去就 (きょしゅう), 就く (つ.く), 就ける (つ.ける)	concerning 就 画数12 2121 Details Story Dictionary 就 concerning My Story [Capital {京} + dog (not quite, better kanji is {尤})] In the *Capital* I saw *a dog* with one human leg, quite concerning. Koohii #1 In the capital they have been having hearings concerning bioethics and bioengineering they call as their first witness a chihuahua with one human leg. Koohii #2 Ahem...CONCERNING your recent science fair project, it was a CAPITAL idea, but the CHIHUAHUA with a HUMAN LEG is freaking out the other contestants! Primitives concerning, capital, tall, top hat, mouth, small, little, understandably, chihuahua with one human leg 就業(しゅうぎょう): employment, starting work 就任(しゅうにん): inauguration 就職(しゅうしょく): finding employment, inauguration 就く(つく): settle in (place), take (seat, position), study (under teacher) Kunyomi: つ.く、つ.ける Onyomi: シュウ、ジュ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 就任 (しゅうにん), 就寝 (しゅうしん), 去就 (きょしゅう), 就く (つ.く), 就ける (つ.ける)
kick Details Story Dictionary 蹴 kick Heisig's Wooden leg . . . concerning. Koohii #1 The soccer player was concerned that his peg leg would affect his ability to kick. Koohii #2 I kick with my FEET in the CAPITAL of all the ONE LEGGED CHIHUAHUAS. It is such a great fun, since they cannot kick me back! lol. Primitives kick, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, concerning, capital, tall, top hat, mouth, small, little, understandably, chihuahua with one human leg, mouth2 蹴飛ばす(けとばす): to kick away, to kick off, to kick (someone), to refuse, to reject 蹴る(ける): kick Kunyomi: け.る Onyomi: シュク、シュウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 蹴る (け.る)	kick 蹴 画数19 2122 Details Story Dictionary 蹴 kick Heisig's Wooden leg . . . concerning. Koohii #1 The soccer player was concerned that his peg leg would affect his ability to kick. Koohii #2 I kick with my FEET in the CAPITAL of all the ONE LEGGED CHIHUAHUAS. It is such a great fun, since they cannot kick me back! lol. Primitives kick, wooden leg, mouth, stop, footprint, concerning, capital, tall, top hat, mouth, small, little, understandably, chihuahua with one human leg, mouth2 蹴飛ばす(けとばす): to kick away, to kick off, to kick (someone), to refuse, to reject 蹴る(ける): kick Kunyomi: け.る Onyomi: シュク、シュウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 蹴る (け.る)
"sociable Details Story Dictionary 懇 sociable Heisig's Skunk . . . silver . . . heart. Koohii #1 The skunk here is Pepe LePew of Looney Tunes fame. He´s a very sociable skunk, as far as skunks go, but instead of having a ""heart of gold"" he has a heart of silver (since he always finishes second in the game of love). Koohii #2 The skunk here is Pepe LePew of Looney Tunes fame. He´s a very sociable skunk, as far as skunks go, but instead of having a ""heart of gold"" he has a heart of silver. Primitives sociable, skunk, silver, heart Kunyomi: ねんご.ろ Onyomi: コン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 懇ろ (ねんご.ろ)"	"sociable 懇 画数17 2123 Details Story Dictionary 懇 sociable Heisig's Skunk . . . silver . . . heart. Koohii #1 The skunk here is Pepe LePew of Looney Tunes fame. He´s a very sociable skunk, as far as skunks go, but instead of having a ""heart of gold"" he has a heart of silver (since he always finishes second in the game of love). Koohii #2 The skunk here is Pepe LePew of Looney Tunes fame. He´s a very sociable skunk, as far as skunks go, but instead of having a ""heart of gold"" he has a heart of silver. Primitives sociable, skunk, silver, heart Kunyomi: ねんご.ろ Onyomi: コン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 懇ろ (ねんご.ろ)"
groundbreaking Details Story Dictionary 墾 groundbreaking Heisig's The groundbreaking referred to here is not for the erection of new buildings but for the opening of farmlands. The elements: skunk . . . silver . . . soil. Koohii #1 It was the groundbreaking of the new farm, but there was an uninvited guest to the ceremony. It was a famous skunk, the one with the familiar silver stripe. The feet of the crowd rushing from the ceremony site churned up the soil very nicely. The ceremony was ruined but the groundbreaking was a great success. Koohii #2 I got sprayed by a skunk, so no one is helping me with the groundbreaking of my farm. On a positive note, I found silver laying all over the soil. Mine all mine! Primitives groundbreaking, skunk, silver, soil, dirt, ground Kunyomi: Onyomi: コン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	groundbreaking 墾 画数16 2124 Details Story Dictionary 墾 groundbreaking Heisig's The groundbreaking referred to here is not for the erection of new buildings but for the opening of farmlands. The elements: skunk . . . silver . . . soil. Koohii #1 It was the groundbreaking of the new farm, but there was an uninvited guest to the ceremony. It was a famous skunk, the one with the familiar silver stripe. The feet of the crowd rushing from the ceremony site churned up the soil very nicely. The ceremony was ruined but the groundbreaking was a great success. Koohii #2 I got sprayed by a skunk, so no one is helping me with the groundbreaking of my farm. On a positive note, I found silver laying all over the soil. Mine all mine! Primitives groundbreaking, skunk, silver, soil, dirt, ground Kunyomi: Onyomi: コン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
countenance Details Story Dictionary 貌 countenance Heisig's Skunk . . . white . . . human legs. Koohii #1 Anyone who watched a looney tunes cartoon know those kind of scene : pepe embraces a poor kitty mistaken for a SKUNK and the smell of pepe make the unfortunate girl loose all countenance : she turns WHITE then runs as fast as her LEGS can carry her . So much for cat s dignity and countenance. Koohii #2 The shocked countenance on girl's face when Pepe started to hump her white legs. Primitives countenance, skunk, badger, white, dove, human legs Kunyomi: かたち、かたどる Onyomi: ボウ、バク Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	countenance 貌 画数14 2125 Details Story Dictionary 貌 countenance Heisig's Skunk . . . white . . . human legs. Koohii #1 Anyone who watched a looney tunes cartoon know those kind of scene : pepe embraces a poor kitty mistaken for a SKUNK and the smell of pepe make the unfortunate girl loose all countenance : she turns WHITE then runs as fast as her LEGS can carry her . So much for cat s dignity and countenance. Koohii #2 The shocked countenance on girl's face when Pepe started to hump her white legs. Primitives countenance, skunk, badger, white, dove, human legs Kunyomi: かたち、かたどる Onyomi: ボウ、バク Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
excuse Details Story Dictionary 免 excuse Heisig's This character is used for excusing oneself for a failure of courtesy. The elements are: bound up . . . sun (oddly enough, laid on its side) . . . human legs. * For the primitive meaning, we shall refer to this character as a rabbit, for which the old form of the character is 兔. Koohii #1 Obviously this is the rabbit from Alice, excusing himself and rushing away on his legs, as he has a binding day schedule. This is at the same time an image, with bound=ears, day=head and legs are just legs. The image is used in rabbit (#2093). Koohii #2 What is the rabbit´s excuse for being such a jerk? Well he was bound up for a whole day while being stepped on by peoples human legs in some make-up labratory. Yeah I think I can excuse him after knowing that. Primitives excuse, village stocks, rabbit, bound up, human legs 御免ください(ごめんください): May I come in? 御免なさい(ごめんなさい): I beg your pardon, excuse me 免れる(まぬかれる): to escape from, to be rescued from, to avoid, to evade, to avert, to elude, to be exempted, to be relieved from pain, to get rid of 免除(めんじょ): exemption, exoneration, discharge 御免(ごめん): your pardon, declining (something), dismissal, permission 免許(めんきょ): license, permit, certificate 免税(めんぜい): tax exemption Kunyomi: まぬか.れる、まぬが.れる Onyomi: メン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 免れる (まぬか.れる)	excuse 免 画数8 2126 Details Story Dictionary 免 excuse Heisig's This character is used for excusing oneself for a failure of courtesy. The elements are: bound up . . . sun (oddly enough, laid on its side) . . . human legs. * For the primitive meaning, we shall refer to this character as a rabbit, for which the old form of the character is 兔. Koohii #1 Obviously this is the rabbit from Alice, excusing himself and rushing away on his legs, as he has a binding day schedule. This is at the same time an image, with bound=ears, day=head and legs are just legs. The image is used in rabbit (#2093). Koohii #2 What is the rabbit´s excuse for being such a jerk? Well he was bound up for a whole day while being stepped on by peoples human legs in some make-up labratory. Yeah I think I can excuse him after knowing that. Primitives excuse, village stocks, rabbit, bound up, human legs 御免ください(ごめんください): May I come in? 御免なさい(ごめんなさい): I beg your pardon, excuse me 免れる(まぬかれる): to escape from, to be rescued from, to avoid, to evade, to avert, to elude, to be exempted, to be relieved from pain, to get rid of 免除(めんじょ): exemption, exoneration, discharge 御免(ごめん): your pardon, declining (something), dismissal, permission 免許(めんきょ): license, permit, certificate 免税(めんぜい): tax exemption Kunyomi: まぬか.れる、まぬが.れる Onyomi: メン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 免れる (まぬか.れる)
elude Details Story Dictionary 逸 elude Heisig's Rabbit . . . road. Koohii #1 Word play to differentiate elude/evade: elude ~= e-lewd. Alice is following Mr. Rabbit on the road. Mr. Rabbit flashes her in a lewd way and disappears, completely eluding her. Koohii #2 Even though the white rabbit was late, he eluded the wrath of the the Queen of Hearts because Alice was coming up the road. Primitives deviate, elude, village stocks, rabbit, bound up, human legs, road 逸らす(そらす): to turn away, to avert 逸れる(それる): stray from subject, get lost, go astray Kunyomi: そ.れる、そ.らす、はぐ.れる Onyomi: イツ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	elude 逸 画数11 2127 Details Story Dictionary 逸 elude Heisig's Rabbit . . . road. Koohii #1 Word play to differentiate elude/evade: elude ~= e-lewd. Alice is following Mr. Rabbit on the road. Mr. Rabbit flashes her in a lewd way and disappears, completely eluding her. Koohii #2 Even though the white rabbit was late, he eluded the wrath of the the Queen of Hearts because Alice was coming up the road. Primitives deviate, elude, village stocks, rabbit, bound up, human legs, road 逸らす(そらす): to turn away, to avert 逸れる(それる): stray from subject, get lost, go astray Kunyomi: そ.れる、そ.らす、はぐ.れる Onyomi: イツ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
nightfall Details Story Dictionary 晩 nightfall Heisig's Sun . . . rabbit. Koohii #1 At nightfall the sun excuses itself and goes to sleep. Koohii #2 This is EASY!!! Japanese people see a RABBIT ON THE MOON (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moon_rabbit ) and so nightfall is when the sun leaves to make way for the rabbit. Primitives nightfall, sun, day, village stocks, rabbit, bound up, human legs 今晩(こんばん): tonight, this evening 晩(ばん): evening 晩御飯(ばんごはん): dinner, evening meal 毎晩(まいばん): every night Kunyomi: Onyomi: バン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:	nightfall 晩 画数12 2128 Details Story Dictionary 晩 nightfall Heisig's Sun . . . rabbit. Koohii #1 At nightfall the sun excuses itself and goes to sleep. Koohii #2 This is EASY!!! Japanese people see a RABBIT ON THE MOON (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moon_rabbit ) and so nightfall is when the sun leaves to make way for the rabbit. Primitives nightfall, sun, day, village stocks, rabbit, bound up, human legs 今晩(こんばん): tonight, this evening 晩(ばん): evening 晩御飯(ばんごはん): dinner, evening meal 毎晩(まいばん): every night Kunyomi: Onyomi: バン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:
exertion Details Story Dictionary 勉 exertion Heisig's Rabbit . . . muscle. Notice how the last stroke of rabbit is stretched out to underlie the element for muscle. Koohii #1 When RABBITS hop around, they EXERT tremendous force using their MUSCULAR legs. Koohii #2 The energizer bunny's exertion of power keeps going and going... Primitives exertion, village stocks, rabbit, bound up, human legs, power, muscle, arnold 勤勉(きんべん): industry, diligence 勉強(べんきょう): study, diligence, discount, reduction Kunyomi: つと.める Onyomi: ベン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:	exertion 勉 画数10 2129 Details Story Dictionary 勉 exertion Heisig's Rabbit . . . muscle. Notice how the last stroke of rabbit is stretched out to underlie the element for muscle. Koohii #1 When RABBITS hop around, they EXERT tremendous force using their MUSCULAR legs. Koohii #2 The energizer bunny's exertion of power keeps going and going... Primitives exertion, village stocks, rabbit, bound up, human legs, power, muscle, arnold 勤勉(きんべん): industry, diligence 勉強(べんきょう): study, diligence, discount, reduction Kunyomi: つと.める Onyomi: ベン Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:
"elephant Details Story Dictionary 象 elephant Heisig's A rabbit's head with the body of a sow represents an elephant. Little wonder that the kanji also means ""phenomenon""! Koohii #1 An elephant has huge ears, like a rabbit, and a big, fat body, like a sow. Koohii #2 An animal with huge ears like a rabbit, and a body fat like a pig... ¡An ELEPHANT! For the ""phenomenon"" connotation you could use Dumbo, or Joseph Merrick (the ""elephant man"") ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joseph_Merrick ). Primitives elephant, colour, color, bound up, sow, pig 気象(きしょう): weather, climate 象(しょう): phenomenon 象徴(しょうちょう): symbol 印象(いんしょう): impression 現象(げんしょう): phenomenon 象(ぞう): elephant 対象(たいしょう): target, object (of worship, study, etc.) 抽象(ちゅうしょう): abstract Kunyomi: かたど.る Onyomi: ショウ、ゾウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 象徴 (しょうちょう), 対象 (たいしょう), 現象 (げんしょう)"	"elephant 象 画数12 2130 Details Story Dictionary 象 elephant Heisig's A rabbit's head with the body of a sow represents an elephant. Little wonder that the kanji also means ""phenomenon""! Koohii #1 An elephant has huge ears, like a rabbit, and a big, fat body, like a sow. Koohii #2 An animal with huge ears like a rabbit, and a body fat like a pig... ¡An ELEPHANT! For the ""phenomenon"" connotation you could use Dumbo, or Joseph Merrick (the ""elephant man"") ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joseph_Merrick ). Primitives elephant, colour, color, bound up, sow, pig 気象(きしょう): weather, climate 象(しょう): phenomenon 象徴(しょうちょう): symbol 印象(いんしょう): impression 現象(げんしょう): phenomenon 象(ぞう): elephant 対象(たいしょう): target, object (of worship, study, etc.) 抽象(ちゅうしょう): abstract Kunyomi: かたど.る Onyomi: ショウ、ゾウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 象徴 (しょうちょう), 対象 (たいしょう), 現象 (げんしょう)"
statue Details Story Dictionary 像 statue My Story The statue of liberty is being replaced by a statue of Mr. T riding an elephant. Koohii #1 Statues of people are made the same size as statues of elephants. Koohii #2 One of the most famous statues is of course the Statue of Liberty, which is known for the first thing a person sees when coming into New York. However, did you know that the first thing a person used to see (between the years of 1885 to 1896) was actually a huge elephant statue on Coney Island? It's true too... ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coney_Island - search Coney Island Elephant). Primitives statue, person, elephant, colour, color, bound up, sow, pig 映像(えいぞう): reflection, image 現像(げんぞう): developing (film) 像(ぞう): statue, image, figure, picture, portrait 仏像(ぶつぞう): Buddhist image (statue) 想像(そうぞう): imagination, guess Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゾウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	statue 像 画数14 2131 Details Story Dictionary 像 statue My Story The statue of liberty is being replaced by a statue of Mr. T riding an elephant. Koohii #1 Statues of people are made the same size as statues of elephants. Koohii #2 One of the most famous statues is of course the Statue of Liberty, which is known for the first thing a person sees when coming into New York. However, did you know that the first thing a person used to see (between the years of 1885 to 1896) was actually a huge elephant statue on Coney Island? It's true too... ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coney_Island - search Coney Island Elephant). Primitives statue, person, elephant, colour, color, bound up, sow, pig 映像(えいぞう): reflection, image 現像(げんぞう): developing (film) 像(ぞう): statue, image, figure, picture, portrait 仏像(ぶつぞう): Buddhist image (statue) 想像(そうぞう): imagination, guess Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゾウ Lesson: 53 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
"horse Details Story Dictionary 馬 horse Heisig's Let the extra vertical stroke in the mane combine with the first vertical stroke to give an image of the horse's long neck. The only odd thing is the tail feathers at the end, but that should present a good image to remember the character by. The fact that the last stroke of mane and the first of tail feathers coincide should no longer surprise you. * As a primitive, this kanji will mean a team of horses as distinct from the single horse whose primitive we met earlier. Koohii #1 Turkey with the drops at the top removed and tail feathers added (this matches stroke order and there are the tail feathers already, why not have the whole bird). If you take the two drops of 隹 as wings, then horses are like turkeys, but have no wings and have more prominent tail ""feathers"". Both are actually supposed to be pictographs, though. Koohii #2 The top part is half a comb (see frame 1920) with an extra vertical stroke to account for a sturdier version used to comb a horse mane. As a primitive I used the theme of the Trojan Horse. Not the modern computer viruses, but the large wooden horse which led to the demise of Troy and of the Trojans. Either its size (much greater than a live horse), or the fact that it conceals things into its belly, will set it appart from the horse primitive that came in frame 568 (""noon""). Primitives horse, team of horses 馬鹿馬鹿しい(ばかばかしい): stupid 馬鹿らしい(ばからしい): absurd 馬(うま): horse 競馬(けいば): horse racing 馬鹿(ばか): fool, idiot, trivial matter, folly Kunyomi: うま、うま-、ま Onyomi: バ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 馬 (うま)"	"horse 馬 画数10 2132 Details Story Dictionary 馬 horse Heisig's Let the extra vertical stroke in the mane combine with the first vertical stroke to give an image of the horse's long neck. The only odd thing is the tail feathers at the end, but that should present a good image to remember the character by. The fact that the last stroke of mane and the first of tail feathers coincide should no longer surprise you. * As a primitive, this kanji will mean a team of horses as distinct from the single horse whose primitive we met earlier. Koohii #1 Turkey with the drops at the top removed and tail feathers added (this matches stroke order and there are the tail feathers already, why not have the whole bird). If you take the two drops of 隹 as wings, then horses are like turkeys, but have no wings and have more prominent tail ""feathers"". Both are actually supposed to be pictographs, though. Koohii #2 The top part is half a comb (see frame 1920) with an extra vertical stroke to account for a sturdier version used to comb a horse mane. As a primitive I used the theme of the Trojan Horse. Not the modern computer viruses, but the large wooden horse which led to the demise of Troy and of the Trojans. Either its size (much greater than a live horse), or the fact that it conceals things into its belly, will set it appart from the horse primitive that came in frame 568 (""noon""). Primitives horse, team of horses 馬鹿馬鹿しい(ばかばかしい): stupid 馬鹿らしい(ばからしい): absurd 馬(うま): horse 競馬(けいば): horse racing 馬鹿(ばか): fool, idiot, trivial matter, folly Kunyomi: うま、うま-、ま Onyomi: バ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: 2 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 馬 (うま)"
"pony Details Story Dictionary 駒 pony Heisig's Team of horses . . . phrase. In American slang, a pony is an underground translation of a classical text, which students who cannot manage the difficult phrases of the original language consult and pass on from one generation to the next. Koohii #1 The new My Little Ponies show is all about magic horses who utter cute catch phrases. Koohii #2 A particular My Little Pony has a string that when you pull it, it repeats the same dumb phrase like ""I love you"". Primitives pony, team of horses, phrase, bound up, mouth Kunyomi: こま Onyomi: ク Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 駒 (こま)"	"pony 駒 画数15 2133 Details Story Dictionary 駒 pony Heisig's Team of horses . . . phrase. In American slang, a pony is an underground translation of a classical text, which students who cannot manage the difficult phrases of the original language consult and pass on from one generation to the next. Koohii #1 The new My Little Ponies show is all about magic horses who utter cute catch phrases. Koohii #2 A particular My Little Pony has a string that when you pull it, it repeats the same dumb phrase like ""I love you"". Primitives pony, team of horses, phrase, bound up, mouth Kunyomi: こま Onyomi: ク Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 駒 (こま)"
verification (test) Details Story Dictionary 験 verification (test) My Story [Horse {馬} + risk] I need to verify (#test#) that the *horses* arent at *risk*, said the horse fucker Koohii #1 We just verification that there are indeed no soldiers in the belly of this trojan horse. We´re just gonna stab it in the belly with this awl to check. Koohii #2 The verification proves the horse is real by poking it with an ice pick. Primitives verification, team of horses, awl, fit, meeting, umbrella, mouth, person 体験(たいけん): personal experience 実験(じっけん): experiment 受験(じゅけん): taking an examination 経験(けいけん): experience 試験(しけん): examination Kunyomi: あかし、しるし、ため.す、ためし Onyomi: ケン、ゲン Lesson: 54 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 試験 (しけん), 経験 (けいけん), 実験 (じっけん)	verification (test) 験 画数18 2134 Details Story Dictionary 験 verification (test) My Story [Horse {馬} + risk] I need to verify (#test#) that the *horses* arent at *risk*, said the horse fucker Koohii #1 We just verification that there are indeed no soldiers in the belly of this trojan horse. We´re just gonna stab it in the belly with this awl to check. Koohii #2 The verification proves the horse is real by poking it with an ice pick. Primitives verification, team of horses, awl, fit, meeting, umbrella, mouth, person 体験(たいけん): personal experience 実験(じっけん): experiment 受験(じゅけん): taking an examination 経験(けいけん): experience 試験(しけん): examination Kunyomi: あかし、しるし、ため.す、ためし Onyomi: ケン、ゲン Lesson: 54 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 試験 (しけん), 経験 (けいけん), 実験 (じっけん)
equestrian Details Story Dictionary 騎 equestrian Heisig's Team of horses . . . strange. Koohii #1 Equestrian events are where you get horses to do strange things. Koohii #2 If the equestrian team used trojan horses, it would be really strange. Primitives equestrian, team of horses, strange, large, St. Bernard, street, nail, spike, mouth Kunyomi: Onyomi: キ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	equestrian 騎 画数18 2135 Details Story Dictionary 騎 equestrian Heisig's Team of horses . . . strange. Koohii #1 Equestrian events are where you get horses to do strange things. Koohii #2 If the equestrian team used trojan horses, it would be really strange. Primitives equestrian, team of horses, strange, large, St. Bernard, street, nail, spike, mouth Kunyomi: Onyomi: キ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
parking Details Story Dictionary 駐 parking Heisig's Team of horses . . . candlestick. Koohii #1 In the olden days you had to park your horse next to a candlestick, a primitive parking meter that you start by lighting a fire and tracks the time by burning down. Koohii #2 In the olden days parking lots used to have reserved spaces for where the lord (of the set of houses, shops, whatever) could park his team of horses. nowadays it´s pretty much the same...reserved parking in front for the big bosses´ cars.... Primitives stop-over, parking, team of horses, candlestick, lord, drop, king, jewel, ball 駐車(ちゅうしゃ): parking (e.g. car) 駐車場(ちゅうしゃじょう): parking lot Kunyomi: Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	parking 駐 画数15 2136 Details Story Dictionary 駐 parking Heisig's Team of horses . . . candlestick. Koohii #1 In the olden days you had to park your horse next to a candlestick, a primitive parking meter that you start by lighting a fire and tracks the time by burning down. Koohii #2 In the olden days parking lots used to have reserved spaces for where the lord (of the set of houses, shops, whatever) could park his team of horses. nowadays it´s pretty much the same...reserved parking in front for the big bosses´ cars.... Primitives stop-over, parking, team of horses, candlestick, lord, drop, king, jewel, ball 駐車(ちゅうしゃ): parking (e.g. car) 駐車場(ちゅうしゃじょう): parking lot Kunyomi: Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
drive Details Story Dictionary 駆 drive Heisig's Team of horses . . . ward. Koohii #1 You have to be craaazzzzyy to drive a buggy led by a team of horses through a ward of Tokyo! Koohii #2 You use teams of horses to drive you and your carriage around the ward. Primitives drive, team of horses, ward, box, sheaf 駆け足(かけあし): running fast, double time 駆けっこ(かけっこ): (foot) race 駆ける(かける): to run (race esp. horse), to gallop, to canter Kunyomi: か.ける、か.る Onyomi: ク Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 駆ける (か.ける), 駆る (か.る)	drive 駆 画数14 2137 Details Story Dictionary 駆 drive Heisig's Team of horses . . . ward. Koohii #1 You have to be craaazzzzyy to drive a buggy led by a team of horses through a ward of Tokyo! Koohii #2 You use teams of horses to drive you and your carriage around the ward. Primitives drive, team of horses, ward, box, sheaf 駆け足(かけあし): running fast, double time 駆けっこ(かけっこ): (foot) race 駆ける(かける): to run (race esp. horse), to gallop, to canter Kunyomi: か.ける、か.る Onyomi: ク Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 駆ける (か.ける), 駆る (か.る)
station Details Story Dictionary 駅 station Heisig's Team of horses . . . shakuhachi. Koohii #1 Anyone living in Japan knows that train stations play little melodies when the train is about to arrive. In Ye Olden Days, when horses and carriages were used for transport, the carriage driver would play a little melody on his shakuhachi to let the passengers know the carriage was arriving at the next station. Koohii #2 A homeless horse playing the flute at the station to make a dime. Primitives station, team of horses, shaku-hachi, flag, stick 駅(えき): station Kunyomi: Onyomi: エキ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:	station 駅 画数14 2138 Details Story Dictionary 駅 station Heisig's Team of horses . . . shakuhachi. Koohii #1 Anyone living in Japan knows that train stations play little melodies when the train is about to arrive. In Ye Olden Days, when horses and carriages were used for transport, the carriage driver would play a little melody on his shakuhachi to let the passengers know the carriage was arriving at the next station. Koohii #2 A homeless horse playing the flute at the station to make a dime. Primitives station, team of horses, shaku-hachi, flag, stick 駅(えき): station Kunyomi: Onyomi: エキ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds:
boisterous Details Story Dictionary 騒 boisterous Heisig's Team of horses . . . crotch . . . insect. Koohii #1 Or more precisely: the team of horses are getting boisterous because one of them got bitten in the crotch by a horse fly. The kanji also means to roar, make up noise, to kick up a fuss and to make merry. Perhaps it is exactly the etymology behind this kanji. Koohii #2 The hidden Greeks inside the Trojan Horse are getting boisterous as one of them is bitten in the crotch by a nasty insect. If they don´t shut up, the Trojans will hear them... Primitives boisterous, team of horses, crotch, insect 騒動(そうどう): strife, riot, rebellion 騒がしい(さわがしい): noisy 騒ぎ(さわぎ): uproar, disturbance 騒音(そうおん): noise 騒々しい(そうぞうしい): noisy, boisterous 物騒(ぶっそう): dangerous, disturbed, insecure 騒ぐ(さわぐ): make a noise Kunyomi: さわ.ぐ、うれい、さわ.がしい Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 騒ぐ (さわ.ぐ)	boisterous 騒 画数18 2139 Details Story Dictionary 騒 boisterous Heisig's Team of horses . . . crotch . . . insect. Koohii #1 Or more precisely: the team of horses are getting boisterous because one of them got bitten in the crotch by a horse fly. The kanji also means to roar, make up noise, to kick up a fuss and to make merry. Perhaps it is exactly the etymology behind this kanji. Koohii #2 The hidden Greeks inside the Trojan Horse are getting boisterous as one of them is bitten in the crotch by a nasty insect. If they don´t shut up, the Trojans will hear them... Primitives boisterous, team of horses, crotch, insect 騒動(そうどう): strife, riot, rebellion 騒がしい(さわがしい): noisy 騒ぎ(さわぎ): uproar, disturbance 騒音(そうおん): noise 騒々しい(そうぞうしい): noisy, boisterous 物騒(ぶっそう): dangerous, disturbed, insecure 騒ぐ(さわぐ): make a noise Kunyomi: さわ.ぐ、うれい、さわ.がしい Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 騒ぐ (さわ.ぐ)
burdensome Details Story Dictionary 駄 burdensome Heisig's Team of horses . . . plump. Koohii #1 If a passenger is too plump and heavy, its too burdensome for the horse. Koohii #2 If your horses get so plump to be good for nothing they just become burdensome. Primitives burdensome, team of horses, plump, large, St. Bernard, drop 駄作(ださく): poor work, rubbish 無駄遣い(むだづかい): waste money on, squander money on, flog a dead horse 下駄(げた): wooden clogs 駄目(だめ): no, no good, hopeless 無駄(むだ): futility, uselessness Kunyomi: Onyomi: ダ、タ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	burdensome 駄 画数14 2140 Details Story Dictionary 駄 burdensome Heisig's Team of horses . . . plump. Koohii #1 If a passenger is too plump and heavy, its too burdensome for the horse. Koohii #2 If your horses get so plump to be good for nothing they just become burdensome. Primitives burdensome, team of horses, plump, large, St. Bernard, drop 駄作(ださく): poor work, rubbish 無駄遣い(むだづかい): waste money on, squander money on, flog a dead horse 下駄(げた): wooden clogs 駄目(だめ): no, no good, hopeless 無駄(むだ): futility, uselessness Kunyomi: Onyomi: ダ、タ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"wonder Details Story Dictionary 驚 wonder Heisig's Awe . . . team of horses. Koohii #1 You stand in AWE at the 8th WONDER of the world, a huge TROJAN HORSE. Koohii #2 This is another word for surprise. 驚く＝おどろく= surprise. The Trojans stood in awe of the magnificent Trojan Horse that they thought was a gift. But imagine their surprise (wonder) when a bunch of Greeks came rushing out of it! (To further cement the connection between the primitives, if needed: It´s a wonder that the Trojans managed to speak keigo 敬語 even then, saying ""わたくしたちを殺さないでください!!お願い致します!!""). Primitives wonder, awe, flowers, phrase, bound up, mouth, taskmaster, team of horses 驚き(おどろき): surprise, astonishment, wonder 驚異(きょうい): wonder, miracle 吃驚(びっくり): be surprised, be amazed, be frightened, astonishment 驚かす(おどろかす): surprise, frighten, create a stir 驚く(おどろく): to surprise Kunyomi: おどろ.く、おどろ.かす Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 驚かす (おどろ.かす), 驚く (おどろ.く)"	"wonder 驚 画数22 2141 Details Story Dictionary 驚 wonder Heisig's Awe . . . team of horses. Koohii #1 You stand in AWE at the 8th WONDER of the world, a huge TROJAN HORSE. Koohii #2 This is another word for surprise. 驚く＝おどろく= surprise. The Trojans stood in awe of the magnificent Trojan Horse that they thought was a gift. But imagine their surprise (wonder) when a bunch of Greeks came rushing out of it! (To further cement the connection between the primitives, if needed: It´s a wonder that the Trojans managed to speak keigo 敬語 even then, saying ""わたくしたちを殺さないでください!!お願い致します!!""). Primitives wonder, awe, flowers, phrase, bound up, mouth, taskmaster, team of horses 驚き(おどろき): surprise, astonishment, wonder 驚異(きょうい): wonder, miracle 吃驚(びっくり): be surprised, be amazed, be frightened, astonishment 驚かす(おどろかす): surprise, frighten, create a stir 驚く(おどろく): to surprise Kunyomi: おどろ.く、おどろ.かす Onyomi: キョウ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 驚かす (おどろ.かす), 驚く (おどろ.く)"
fervent Details Story Dictionary 篤 fervent Heisig's Bamboo . . . team of horses. Koohii #1 A fervent horse doesnt need to be whipped with a bamboo stick during a race, it will go fast by itself. Koohii #2 A fervent history otaku rebuild the the Trojan Horse. But since he was Japanese, he used bamboo instead of normal wood. Primitives fervent, bamboo, team of horses Kunyomi: あつ.い Onyomi: トク Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	fervent 篤 画数16 2142 Details Story Dictionary 篤 fervent Heisig's Bamboo . . . team of horses. Koohii #1 A fervent horse doesnt need to be whipped with a bamboo stick during a race, it will go fast by itself. Koohii #2 A fervent history otaku rebuild the the Trojan Horse. But since he was Japanese, he used bamboo instead of normal wood. Primitives fervent, bamboo, team of horses Kunyomi: あつ.い Onyomi: トク Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
insult Details Story Dictionary 罵 insult Heisig's Eyeball . . . team of horses. Koohii #1 In ancient Japan, the most grievous insult was to poke a rival´s horse in the eye (consider how rare an expensive a steed was in those days). It was the final step in preparation for a duel to the death. Koohii #2 In Japan, is is considered insulting to look at someone from atop your horse. You have to step down and face people properly. Primitives insult, eye, cross-eyed, net, team of horses 罵る(ののしる): to speak ill of, to abuse Kunyomi: ののし.る Onyomi: バ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 罵る (ののし.る)	insult 罵 画数15 2143 Details Story Dictionary 罵 insult Heisig's Eyeball . . . team of horses. Koohii #1 In ancient Japan, the most grievous insult was to poke a rival´s horse in the eye (consider how rare an expensive a steed was in those days). It was the final step in preparation for a duel to the death. Koohii #2 In Japan, is is considered insulting to look at someone from atop your horse. You have to step down and face people properly. Primitives insult, eye, cross-eyed, net, team of horses 罵る(ののしる): to speak ill of, to abuse Kunyomi: ののし.る Onyomi: バ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 罵る (ののし.る)
inflation Details Story Dictionary 騰 inflation Heisig's Meat . . . quarter . . . team of horses. Koohii #1 Flesh+quarter=McDonald´s quarter pounder. Due to inflation, McDonald´s has had to start making quarter pounders out of horse meat. Koohii #2 Every quarter moon, the cost of a trojan horse rises one quarter by inflation. Primitives inflation, edam, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, quarter, team of horses 沸騰(ふっとう): boiling, seething Kunyomi: Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	inflation 騰 画数20 2144 Details Story Dictionary 騰 inflation Heisig's Meat . . . quarter . . . team of horses. Koohii #1 Flesh+quarter=McDonald´s quarter pounder. Due to inflation, McDonald´s has had to start making quarter pounders out of horse meat. Koohii #2 Every quarter moon, the cost of a trojan horse rises one quarter by inflation. Primitives inflation, edam, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, quarter, team of horses 沸騰(ふっとう): boiling, seething Kunyomi: Onyomi: トウ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"tiger Details Story Dictionary 虎 tiger Heisig's The kanji in this frame recalls the famous Bengali fable about the group of magicians (the magic wand) who decided to make a tiger. It seems that each of them knew how to make one part of the beast, so they pooled their talents and brought all the pieces (diced into pieces) together, at which point the fabricated tiger promptly ate its makers up (the bodiless human legs). Whatever the parable's significance for modern civilization and its arsenals, it should help with this kanji. Oh yes, we should not forget that cliff-like element. Think of it as an abbreviation of the primitive for zoo (the first and fourth strokes, actually), in order to fit the tiger somewhere into the picture. In fact, the abbreviation is perfectly logical, since the bottom elements usurp the room for the rest of the primitive for zoo. * As a primitive element itself, the human legs are also swallowed up, but the meaning of tiger is kept, and the whole serves as a roof for what comes beneath 虍, giving the tiger something else to eat. Koohii #1 Magic wand + first two strokes of pelt (皮) + diced + human legs. A wizard who turns people he doesn´t like into newts with his magic wand goes for variety - he has always wanted a tiger pelt - but things go awry when the tiger promptly dices and eats him, leaving only a pair of legs. (a fitting end for a wicked wizard). Koohii #2 Tigger, the tiger, (from Pooh stories) is happy to have found a magic wand. Using it he can bounce up to a the top of a cliff, seven times as high as some human legs could bounce. Tigger thinks ""Its great to be a tiger! Primitives tiger, magic wand, augury, cliff, hook, diced, seven, human legs 虎(とら): tiger Kunyomi: とら Onyomi: コ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 虎 (とら)"	"tiger 虎 画数8 2145 Details Story Dictionary 虎 tiger Heisig's The kanji in this frame recalls the famous Bengali fable about the group of magicians (the magic wand) who decided to make a tiger. It seems that each of them knew how to make one part of the beast, so they pooled their talents and brought all the pieces (diced into pieces) together, at which point the fabricated tiger promptly ate its makers up (the bodiless human legs). Whatever the parable's significance for modern civilization and its arsenals, it should help with this kanji. Oh yes, we should not forget that cliff-like element. Think of it as an abbreviation of the primitive for zoo (the first and fourth strokes, actually), in order to fit the tiger somewhere into the picture. In fact, the abbreviation is perfectly logical, since the bottom elements usurp the room for the rest of the primitive for zoo. * As a primitive element itself, the human legs are also swallowed up, but the meaning of tiger is kept, and the whole serves as a roof for what comes beneath 虍, giving the tiger something else to eat. Koohii #1 Magic wand + first two strokes of pelt (皮) + diced + human legs. A wizard who turns people he doesn´t like into newts with his magic wand goes for variety - he has always wanted a tiger pelt - but things go awry when the tiger promptly dices and eats him, leaving only a pair of legs. (a fitting end for a wicked wizard). Koohii #2 Tigger, the tiger, (from Pooh stories) is happy to have found a magic wand. Using it he can bounce up to a the top of a cliff, seven times as high as some human legs could bounce. Tigger thinks ""Its great to be a tiger! Primitives tiger, magic wand, augury, cliff, hook, diced, seven, human legs 虎(とら): tiger Kunyomi: とら Onyomi: コ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 虎 (とら)"
"captive Details Story Dictionary 虜 captive Heisig's Tiger . . . man. Koohii #1 Captive men are thrown to the tigers. I think you can imagine something else is done to captive women... Koohii #2 Tip: To avoid confusing keyword captive with captured (#1018) note that captive contains ""ti"" for tiger. Primitives captive, tiger, male, rice field, brains, power, muscle, arnold 捕虜(ほりょ): prisoner (of war) Kunyomi: とりこ、とりく Onyomi: リョ、ロ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"captive 虜 画数13 2146 Details Story Dictionary 虜 captive Heisig's Tiger . . . man. Koohii #1 Captive men are thrown to the tigers. I think you can imagine something else is done to captive women... Koohii #2 Tip: To avoid confusing keyword captive with captured (#1018) note that captive contains ""ti"" for tiger. Primitives captive, tiger, male, rice field, brains, power, muscle, arnold 捕虜(ほりょ): prisoner (of war) Kunyomi: とりこ、とりく Onyomi: リョ、ロ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"skin Details Story Dictionary 膚 skin Heisig's Tiger . . . stomach. Koohii #1 Ending up in a tiger´s stomach is not good for your skin, as it´s full of stomach acids. Koohii #2 They say, ""there's more than one way to skin a cat"", but if you try to skin a tiger you might end up in its stomach. Primitives skin, tiger, stomach, rice field, brains, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 皮膚(ひふ): skin Kunyomi: はだ Onyomi: フ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"	"skin 膚 画数15 2147 Details Story Dictionary 膚 skin Heisig's Tiger . . . stomach. Koohii #1 Ending up in a tiger´s stomach is not good for your skin, as it´s full of stomach acids. Koohii #2 They say, ""there's more than one way to skin a cat"", but if you try to skin a tiger you might end up in its stomach. Primitives skin, tiger, stomach, rice field, brains, moon, month, flesh, part of the body 皮膚(ひふ): skin Kunyomi: はだ Onyomi: フ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:"
void Details Story Dictionary 虚 void Heisig's Tigers . . . row. Koohii #1 In Japanese folklore there is no hell, but there is the void. There, a row of tigers waits in the blackness to devour those souls who have failed in their spiritual life. Koohii #2 Warning to Sigfreid and Roy: Your entertainment contract will be null and void unless you can make all the tigers stand in a row. Primitives void, tiger, row 謙虚(けんきょ): modesty, humility Kunyomi: むな.しい、うつ.ろ Onyomi: キョ、コ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 虚無 (きょむ), 虚偽 (きょぎ), 空虚 (くうきょ)	void 虚 画数11 2148 Details Story Dictionary 虚 void Heisig's Tigers . . . row. Koohii #1 In Japanese folklore there is no hell, but there is the void. There, a row of tigers waits in the blackness to devour those souls who have failed in their spiritual life. Koohii #2 Warning to Sigfreid and Roy: Your entertainment contract will be null and void unless you can make all the tigers stand in a row. Primitives void, tiger, row 謙虚(けんきょ): modesty, humility Kunyomi: むな.しい、うつ.ろ Onyomi: キョ、コ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 虚無 (きょむ), 虚偽 (きょぎ), 空虚 (くうきょ)
frolic Details Story Dictionary 戯 frolic Heisig's Void . . . fiesta. Koohii #1 This is a story about the end of the universe. The universe is turning into a featureless void. There´s nothing we can do about it except for throw a fiesta and frolic a little bit before it´s all over. Koohii #2 Sigfreid and Roy´s contract having been voided, the tiger is free to frolic about at the fiesta. Primitives frolic, void, tiger, row, fiesta 悪戯(いたずら): tease, prank, trick, practical joke, mischief 戯曲(ぎきょく): play, drama 不山戯る(ふざける): to romp, to gambol, to frolic, to joke, to make fun of, to flirt Kunyomi: たわむ.れる、ざ.れる、じゃ.れる Onyomi: ギ、ゲ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 戯れる (たわむ.れる)	frolic 戯 画数15 2149 Details Story Dictionary 戯 frolic Heisig's Void . . . fiesta. Koohii #1 This is a story about the end of the universe. The universe is turning into a featureless void. There´s nothing we can do about it except for throw a fiesta and frolic a little bit before it´s all over. Koohii #2 Sigfreid and Roy´s contract having been voided, the tiger is free to frolic about at the fiesta. Primitives frolic, void, tiger, row, fiesta 悪戯(いたずら): tease, prank, trick, practical joke, mischief 戯曲(ぎきょく): play, drama 不山戯る(ふざける): to romp, to gambol, to frolic, to joke, to make fun of, to flirt Kunyomi: たわむ.れる、ざ.れる、じゃ.れる Onyomi: ギ、ゲ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 戯れる (たわむ.れる)
uneasiness Details Story Dictionary 虞 uneasiness Heisig's Tiger . . . give. Koohii #1 I feel a sense of uneasiness about giving this HUGE tiger a steak. Koohii #2 My dear friend, a Bengali merchant, gave me a tiger as a birthday present. I felt uneasiness, knowing that I´ll have to reject it. Or was it horror? Primitives uneasiness, tiger, give, mouth, chair, tool Kunyomi: おそれ、おもんぱか.る、はか.る、うれ.える、あざむ.く、あやま.る、のぞ.む、たの.しむ Onyomi: グ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 虞 (おそれ)	uneasiness 虞 画数13 2150 Details Story Dictionary 虞 uneasiness Heisig's Tiger . . . give. Koohii #1 I feel a sense of uneasiness about giving this HUGE tiger a steak. Koohii #2 My dear friend, a Bengali merchant, gave me a tiger as a birthday present. I felt uneasiness, knowing that I´ll have to reject it. Or was it horror? Primitives uneasiness, tiger, give, mouth, chair, tool Kunyomi: おそれ、おもんぱか.る、はか.る、うれ.える、あざむ.く、あやま.る、のぞ.む、たの.しむ Onyomi: グ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 虞 (おそれ)
"prudence Details Story Dictionary 慮 prudence Heisig's Tiger . . . think. Koohii #1 Real meaning: ""to ponder"". You have to think with prudence (ponder carefully) about approaching a tiger, as is evident from 虎. Koohii #2 You have to think with prudence about approaching a tiger. If not, it will eat your brains and heart. Thanks raulir. Primitives prudence, tiger, think, rice field, brains, heart 配慮(はいりょ): consideration, concern, forethought 遠慮(えんりょ): diffidence, restraint, reserve 考慮(こうりょ): consideration, taking into account Kunyomi: おもんぱく.る、おもんぱか.る Onyomi: リョ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"prudence 慮 画数15 2151 Details Story Dictionary 慮 prudence Heisig's Tiger . . . think. Koohii #1 Real meaning: ""to ponder"". You have to think with prudence (ponder carefully) about approaching a tiger, as is evident from 虎. Koohii #2 You have to think with prudence about approaching a tiger. If not, it will eat your brains and heart. Thanks raulir. Primitives prudence, tiger, think, rice field, brains, heart 配慮(はいりょ): consideration, concern, forethought 遠慮(えんりょ): diffidence, restraint, reserve 考慮(こうりょ): consideration, taking into account Kunyomi: おもんぱく.る、おもんぱか.る Onyomi: リョ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
drama Details Story Dictionary 劇 drama My Story This is a play (drama) about a *tiger* killing a *pig* with his *REE*alistic sword (*reeeee*).. Koohii #1 There would be a lot of drama if a tiger tried to eat a sow but then the sow attacked it with a saber. Koohii #2 A great Indian drama acted out every year is how a poor Bengali boy fended off the tigers from his pigs using only a sabre. Primitives drama, tiger, sow, pig, sword, sabre, saber 喜劇(きげき): comedy, funny show 劇団(げきだん): troupe, theatrical company 演劇(えんげき): theatre play 劇(げき): performance, play 劇場(げきじょう): theatre 悲劇(ひげき): tragedy Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゲキ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	drama 劇 画数15 2152 Details Story Dictionary 劇 drama My Story This is a play (drama) about a *tiger* killing a *pig* with his *REE*alistic sword (*reeeee*).. Koohii #1 There would be a lot of drama if a tiger tried to eat a sow but then the sow attacked it with a saber. Koohii #2 A great Indian drama acted out every year is how a poor Bengali boy fended off the tigers from his pigs using only a sabre. Primitives drama, tiger, sow, pig, sword, sabre, saber 喜劇(きげき): comedy, funny show 劇団(げきだん): troupe, theatrical company 演劇(えんげき): theatre play 劇(げき): performance, play 劇場(げきじょう): theatre 悲劇(ひげき): tragedy Kunyomi: Onyomi: ゲキ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: 6 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
"tyrannize Details Story Dictionary 虐 tyrannize Heisig's Tiger . . . box with a one in it (or a backwards broom, if that makes it easier). Koohii #1 Here we see the evil tyrannizing tiger. What is on his chest? A giant E, for EVIL, of course. Koohii #2 The ""E"" shape actually means claws here, and the real etymology is a tiger tyrannizing other animals with its claws (the etymologies actually make sense once in a blue moon!). I think of the claws here as two hooks, representing the front paws. (stroke order of that part: 二＋last of 直). Primitives tyrannize, tiger, one, box Kunyomi: しいた.げる Onyomi: ギャク Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 虐げる (しいた.げる)"	"tyrannize 虐 画数9 2153 Details Story Dictionary 虐 tyrannize Heisig's Tiger . . . box with a one in it (or a backwards broom, if that makes it easier). Koohii #1 Here we see the evil tyrannizing tiger. What is on his chest? A giant E, for EVIL, of course. Koohii #2 The ""E"" shape actually means claws here, and the real etymology is a tiger tyrannizing other animals with its claws (the etymologies actually make sense once in a blue moon!). I think of the claws here as two hooks, representing the front paws. (stroke order of that part: 二＋last of 直). Primitives tyrannize, tiger, one, box Kunyomi: しいた.げる Onyomi: ギャク Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 虐げる (しいた.げる)"
"deer Details Story Dictionary 鹿 deer Heisig's Drawn on the walls of a complex of caves near Niaux in southern France are a number of animal likenesses dating from the Upper Paleolithic period. Among them we find pictures of deer, some of them showing men in deer masks. By comparing their drawings to real deer, Stone Age people hoped to acquire power over the animal in the hunt; and by comparing themselves to the deer, to take on that animal's characteristics. But time has locked with a ""double-key"" (the extra stroke through the element for key) the real secret of this art form from us, and we can only surmise such meanings. But more important than the enigmas of the troglodytic mind is the way in which caves, a double-key, and comparing gives us the kanji for deer. * As a primitive, this kanji is abbreviated much the same as the tiger was: the lower element is dropped to leave room for a replacement. Its meaning, however, remains the same. There are a very few cases (see frame 2158) in which there is no abbreviation. When this happens, we may keep the image suggested by the above explanation: painting of a deer. Koohii #1 Bambi wanders into a cave and sees a side order of salad and 2 spoons...but what´s the main course? Koohii #2 Santa´s reindeer, Rudolf, opens a nightclub in a cave. It´s popular with all the deer and reindeer in the world. The cave speciality is a salad w/ dressing on the side. There is no other deer club that can compare. How many other deer nightclubs are there? Primitives deer, cave, antlers, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 馬鹿馬鹿しい(ばかばかしい): stupid 馬鹿らしい(ばからしい): absurd 馬鹿(ばか): fool, idiot, trivial matter, folly Kunyomi: しか、か Onyomi: ロク Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鹿 (しかか)"	"deer 鹿 画数11 2154 Details Story Dictionary 鹿 deer Heisig's Drawn on the walls of a complex of caves near Niaux in southern France are a number of animal likenesses dating from the Upper Paleolithic period. Among them we find pictures of deer, some of them showing men in deer masks. By comparing their drawings to real deer, Stone Age people hoped to acquire power over the animal in the hunt; and by comparing themselves to the deer, to take on that animal's characteristics. But time has locked with a ""double-key"" (the extra stroke through the element for key) the real secret of this art form from us, and we can only surmise such meanings. But more important than the enigmas of the troglodytic mind is the way in which caves, a double-key, and comparing gives us the kanji for deer. * As a primitive, this kanji is abbreviated much the same as the tiger was: the lower element is dropped to leave room for a replacement. Its meaning, however, remains the same. There are a very few cases (see frame 2158) in which there is no abbreviation. When this happens, we may keep the image suggested by the above explanation: painting of a deer. Koohii #1 Bambi wanders into a cave and sees a side order of salad and 2 spoons...but what´s the main course? Koohii #2 Santa´s reindeer, Rudolf, opens a nightclub in a cave. It´s popular with all the deer and reindeer in the world. The cave speciality is a salad w/ dressing on the side. There is no other deer club that can compare. How many other deer nightclubs are there? Primitives deer, cave, antlers, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 馬鹿馬鹿しい(ばかばかしい): stupid 馬鹿らしい(ばからしい): absurd 馬鹿(ばか): fool, idiot, trivial matter, folly Kunyomi: しか、か Onyomi: ロク Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鹿 (しかか)"
foot of a mountain Details Story Dictionary 麓 foot of a mountain Heisig's Grove . . . deer. Koohii #1 Many deer can be found in the grove at the foot of a mountain. Koohii #2 Deer are well known for frolicking in groves of trees. However, they are not well known for actually watching where the heck they are bounding about. Here we have a bunch of dead deer bodies that you find at the foot of a mountain. You are trying to figure why there are so many dead deer in one spot, and then you trace a line up the mountain - leaves and such are scattered all the way up...to a grove. Looks like they hopped through some leaves to their doom. Primitives foot of a mountain, grove, tree, wood, deer, cave, antlers, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 麓(ふもと): foot, the bottom, base (of a mountain) Kunyomi: ふもと Onyomi: ロク Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 麓 (ふもと)	foot of a mountain 麓 画数19 2155 Details Story Dictionary 麓 foot of a mountain Heisig's Grove . . . deer. Koohii #1 Many deer can be found in the grove at the foot of a mountain. Koohii #2 Deer are well known for frolicking in groves of trees. However, they are not well known for actually watching where the heck they are bounding about. Here we have a bunch of dead deer bodies that you find at the foot of a mountain. You are trying to figure why there are so many dead deer in one spot, and then you trace a line up the mountain - leaves and such are scattered all the way up...to a grove. Looks like they hopped through some leaves to their doom. Primitives foot of a mountain, grove, tree, wood, deer, cave, antlers, compare, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 麓(ふもと): foot, the bottom, base (of a mountain) Kunyomi: ふもと Onyomi: ロク Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds: 麓 (ふもと)
"recommend Details Story Dictionary 薦 recommend My Story [Flower + deer {鹿} + slingshot (looks like {与}) + tail feather] Hunting recommendations: use *flowers* to lure *deer*, and use a *slingshot* to kill birds, take a *feather* as a reward. Koohii #1 Customer in restaurant asks you (waiter) what you recommend: ""I recommend ze deer or ze 'eadless chicken. And I recommend you garnish it wiz some flowers."" (let last six strokes = headless chicken). Koohii #2 It is recommended that deers stick to eating flowers. If they try to eat birds, they may end up choking on them, like this one here. Note that the head (白) is gone and the visible part of the body which is normally written with a stroke of the head must by necessity be drawn with a stroke of the tail. Primitives recommend, flowers, deer, cave, antlers, slingshot, catapult, tail feathers 推薦(すいせん): recommendation Kunyomi: すす.める Onyomi: セン Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 薦める (すす.める)"	"recommend 薦 画数16 2156 Details Story Dictionary 薦 recommend My Story [Flower + deer {鹿} + slingshot (looks like {与}) + tail feather] Hunting recommendations: use *flowers* to lure *deer*, and use a *slingshot* to kill birds, take a *feather* as a reward. Koohii #1 Customer in restaurant asks you (waiter) what you recommend: ""I recommend ze deer or ze 'eadless chicken. And I recommend you garnish it wiz some flowers."" (let last six strokes = headless chicken). Koohii #2 It is recommended that deers stick to eating flowers. If they try to eat birds, they may end up choking on them, like this one here. Note that the head (白) is gone and the visible part of the body which is normally written with a stroke of the head must by necessity be drawn with a stroke of the tail. Primitives recommend, flowers, deer, cave, antlers, slingshot, catapult, tail feathers 推薦(すいせん): recommendation Kunyomi: すす.める Onyomi: セン Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 薦める (すす.める)"
"jubilation Details Story Dictionary 慶 jubilation Heisig's Deer . . . crown (note the doubling up) . . . heart . . . walking legs. You may recall that we met the relative primitives at the bottom here before, in the kanji for melancholy (Frame 663). Koohii #1 The hunter experienced jubilation when the deer with melancholy walked up to him and said, ""just shoot me, whats the point in running. Everyone dies someday..."" Koohii #2 Bambi was melancholy at the death of his mother, but is now in jubilation as he´s made friends with thumper. Primitives jubilation, deer, cave, antlers, crown, heart, walking legs 慶び(よろこび): joy, delight, rapture, pleasure, gratification, rejoicing, congratulations, felicitations 慶ぶ(よろこぶ): be delighted, be glad Kunyomi: よろこ.び Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"jubilation 慶 画数15 2157 Details Story Dictionary 慶 jubilation Heisig's Deer . . . crown (note the doubling up) . . . heart . . . walking legs. You may recall that we met the relative primitives at the bottom here before, in the kanji for melancholy (Frame 663). Koohii #1 The hunter experienced jubilation when the deer with melancholy walked up to him and said, ""just shoot me, whats the point in running. Everyone dies someday..."" Koohii #2 Bambi was melancholy at the death of his mother, but is now in jubilation as he´s made friends with thumper. Primitives jubilation, deer, cave, antlers, crown, heart, walking legs 慶び(よろこび): joy, delight, rapture, pleasure, gratification, rejoicing, congratulations, felicitations 慶ぶ(よろこぶ): be delighted, be glad Kunyomi: よろこ.び Onyomi: ケイ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"lovely Details Story Dictionary 麗 lovely Heisig's The painting of a deer itself with its form and color is enough to fill the bill for an image of something lovely. But to give a bit of contrast, we see two mediocre drawings from a later age on two patches of ceiling above. Note that the drop in mediocre has been lengthened somewhat and the second stroke drawn down straight. Koohii #1 The anthropologist made an exact deer painting from the cave ceiling on the ceiling of his house. Too bad they´re both mediocre. All his wife could say was, ""How...lovely."". Koohii #2 Lovely bambi.... pictographe : just take a look at those innocent open eyes (part 1 it´s not more far fetched than seeing mediocre in it) with thin eyebrows what a lovely deer ...(part 2). Primitives lovely, one, ceiling, mediocre, deer, cave, antlers, compare, ceiling2, mediocre2, compare2 奇麗(きれい): pretty, clean, nice, tidy, beautiful, fair Kunyomi: うるわ.しい、うら.らか Onyomi: レイ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 麗しい (うるわ.しい)"	"lovely 麗 画数19 2158 Details Story Dictionary 麗 lovely Heisig's The painting of a deer itself with its form and color is enough to fill the bill for an image of something lovely. But to give a bit of contrast, we see two mediocre drawings from a later age on two patches of ceiling above. Note that the drop in mediocre has been lengthened somewhat and the second stroke drawn down straight. Koohii #1 The anthropologist made an exact deer painting from the cave ceiling on the ceiling of his house. Too bad they´re both mediocre. All his wife could say was, ""How...lovely."". Koohii #2 Lovely bambi.... pictographe : just take a look at those innocent open eyes (part 1 it´s not more far fetched than seeing mediocre in it) with thin eyebrows what a lovely deer ...(part 2). Primitives lovely, one, ceiling, mediocre, deer, cave, antlers, compare, ceiling2, mediocre2, compare2 奇麗(きれい): pretty, clean, nice, tidy, beautiful, fair Kunyomi: うるわ.しい、うら.らか Onyomi: レイ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 麗しい (うるわ.しい)"
"bear Details Story Dictionary 熊 bear My Story A bear has no *ability* {能} (ノウ）to make *fire* 灬. 熊、くま, bear, like くまモン, mascot of 熊本県、くまもとけん, Kumamoto Prefecture. 熊は火を作る能力がない, ""A bear does not have the ability to make fire."" 猟師は熊の足跡を辿った, ""The hunter followed down the bear's tracks."" 虎に比べれば熊は優しい動物です, ""Compared to a tiger, a bear is a gentle animal."" Koohii #1 Most don´t know it, but bears have the ability to walk on fire. They´re invincible creatures! Koohii #2 Note : I don´t know why James Heisig put ""bear"" ahead of ""ability"" (next frame), but I sugget to skip this, learn the next kanji (""ability"") then go back here and use ability as a primitive. Primitives bear, ability, elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, spoon, sitting on the ground, oven-fire, barbecue, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 Kunyomi: くま Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 熊 (くま)"	"bear 熊 画数14 2159 Details Story Dictionary 熊 bear My Story A bear has no *ability* {能} (ノウ）to make *fire* 灬. 熊、くま, bear, like くまモン, mascot of 熊本県、くまもとけん, Kumamoto Prefecture. 熊は火を作る能力がない, ""A bear does not have the ability to make fire."" 猟師は熊の足跡を辿った, ""The hunter followed down the bear's tracks."" 虎に比べれば熊は優しい動物です, ""Compared to a tiger, a bear is a gentle animal."" Koohii #1 Most don´t know it, but bears have the ability to walk on fire. They´re invincible creatures! Koohii #2 Note : I don´t know why James Heisig put ""bear"" ahead of ""ability"" (next frame), but I sugget to skip this, learn the next kanji (""ability"") then go back here and use ability as a primitive. Primitives bear, ability, elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, spoon, sitting on the ground, oven-fire, barbecue, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 Kunyomi: くま Onyomi: ユウ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 熊 (くま)"
"ability Details Story Dictionary 能 ability My Story On top of the *moon*, MUlan did the Micheal Jackson: ""*HI* *HI*"" Sound. This was probably not the best of her abilities Koohii #1 This man may have the dis-ability of no flesh below the elbows, but he can eat with 2 spoons, on in each foot. Koohii #2 Kid from the Oracle´s place in the Matrix (whose head is shining like the moon) is holding a a spoon and making it bend using his special ability. When Neo asks to learn this ability the child replies, "" Remember the truth Neo, there is no spoon."" Neo Proceeds to the kitchen pondering these words of wisdom. The Child smiles mischeviously and pulls a second spoon hidden up his sleeve in the crook of his elbow. ""That´s right Neo,"" the child laughs, ""there is no spoon...there are two spoons!"". Primitives ability, elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 技能(ぎのう): technical skill, ability, capacity 万能(ばんのう): all-purpose, almighty, omnipotent 放射能(ほうしゃのう): radioactivity 本能(ほんのう): instinct 無能(むのう): inefficiency, incompetence 可能(かのう): possible, practicable, feasible 機能(きのう): function, faculty 芸能(げいのう): public entertainment, accomplishments, attainments 才能(さいのう): talent, ability 性能(せいのう): ability, efficiency 知能(ちのう): intelligence, brains 能(のう): talent, gift, function, Noh play 能率(のうりつ): efficiency 能力(のうりょく): ability, faculty 有能(ゆうのう): able, capable, efficient, skill Kunyomi: よ.く Onyomi: ノウ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"ability 能 画数10 2160 Details Story Dictionary 能 ability My Story On top of the *moon*, MUlan did the Micheal Jackson: ""*HI* *HI*"" Sound. This was probably not the best of her abilities Koohii #1 This man may have the dis-ability of no flesh below the elbows, but he can eat with 2 spoons, on in each foot. Koohii #2 Kid from the Oracle´s place in the Matrix (whose head is shining like the moon) is holding a a spoon and making it bend using his special ability. When Neo asks to learn this ability the child replies, "" Remember the truth Neo, there is no spoon."" Neo Proceeds to the kitchen pondering these words of wisdom. The Child smiles mischeviously and pulls a second spoon hidden up his sleeve in the crook of his elbow. ""That´s right Neo,"" the child laughs, ""there is no spoon...there are two spoons!"". Primitives ability, elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 技能(ぎのう): technical skill, ability, capacity 万能(ばんのう): all-purpose, almighty, omnipotent 放射能(ほうしゃのう): radioactivity 本能(ほんのう): instinct 無能(むのう): inefficiency, incompetence 可能(かのう): possible, practicable, feasible 機能(きのう): function, faculty 芸能(げいのう): public entertainment, accomplishments, attainments 才能(さいのう): talent, ability 性能(せいのう): ability, efficiency 知能(ちのう): intelligence, brains 能(のう): talent, gift, function, Noh play 能率(のうりつ): efficiency 能力(のうりょく): ability, faculty 有能(ゆうのう): able, capable, efficient, skill Kunyomi: よ.く Onyomi: ノウ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
attitude Details Story Dictionary 態 attitude Heisig's Ability . . . heart. Koohii #1 This guy has an attitude problem – lots of ability, but his heart´s not in it. Koohii #2 Having a good attitude means believing in your heart that you have the ability to do anything - like memorizing more than 2000 kanji, for example. Primitives attitude, ability, elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, spoon, sitting on the ground, heart, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 形態(けいたい): form, shape, figure 実態(じったい): truth, fact 態勢(たいせい): attitude, conditions, preparations 態々(わざわざ): expressly, specially, doing something especially rather than incidentally 事態(じたい): situation, present state of affairs, circumstances 状態(じょうたい): current status, condition, situation, circumstances, state 態度(たいど): attitude, manner Kunyomi: わざ.と Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	attitude 態 画数14 2161 Details Story Dictionary 態 attitude Heisig's Ability . . . heart. Koohii #1 This guy has an attitude problem – lots of ability, but his heart´s not in it. Koohii #2 Having a good attitude means believing in your heart that you have the ability to do anything - like memorizing more than 2000 kanji, for example. Primitives attitude, ability, elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, spoon, sitting on the ground, heart, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 形態(けいたい): form, shape, figure 実態(じったい): truth, fact 態勢(たいせい): attitude, conditions, preparations 態々(わざわざ): expressly, specially, doing something especially rather than incidentally 事態(じたい): situation, present state of affairs, circumstances 状態(じょうたい): current status, condition, situation, circumstances, state 態度(たいど): attitude, manner Kunyomi: わざ.と Onyomi: タイ Lesson: 54 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"sign of the tiger Details Story Dictionary 寅 sign of the tiger Heisig's House . . . ceiling . . . sprout . . . animal legs. Compare, and do not confuse with, the kanji in frame 1887. Koohii #1 I don't know why but when I read sign of the tiger I get the ""eye of the tiger song"" stuck in my head. So I see rocky training in his house. Hes hitting the ceiling (no punching bag) eating brussel sprouts to keep in good health and running with only the animal legs his dog. Koohii #2 The sign of the tiger is that he´s eaten all of the yellow (#1750) salad in the house. Primitives sign of the tiger, house, caterpillar, one, ceiling, sprout, shoot, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: とら Onyomi: イン Lesson: 55 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"sign of the tiger 寅 画数11 2162 Details Story Dictionary 寅 sign of the tiger Heisig's House . . . ceiling . . . sprout . . . animal legs. Compare, and do not confuse with, the kanji in frame 1887. Koohii #1 I don't know why but when I read sign of the tiger I get the ""eye of the tiger song"" stuck in my head. So I see rocky training in his house. Hes hitting the ceiling (no punching bag) eating brussel sprouts to keep in good health and running with only the animal legs his dog. Koohii #2 The sign of the tiger is that he´s eaten all of the yellow (#1750) salad in the house. Primitives sign of the tiger, house, caterpillar, one, ceiling, sprout, shoot, animal legs, eight Kunyomi: とら Onyomi: イン Lesson: 55 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"performance Details Story Dictionary 演 performance My Story You'll ENJOY the performance. A stream of *water* falls on a *crown*, causing it to topple onto a *TNT plunger* which crushes some *animal legs* and blows up the whole theater!! Koohii #1 Studies have shown that Rocky's PERFORMANCE increases if he downs WATER mixed with gatorade while in a match. Koohii #2 I remember seeing advertisements growing up with the sign of the tiger saying to ""Put a tiger in your tank"", meaning that it would increase the performance of the drops of gasoline you put in. Primitives performance, water, water droplets, water pistol, sign of the tiger, house, caterpillar, one, ceiling, sprout, shoot, animal legs, eight 演習(えんしゅう): practice, exercises, manoeuvers 演出(えんしゅつ): production (e.g. play), direction 演じる(えんじる): to perform (a play), to play (a part), to act (a part), to commit (a blunder) 演ずる(えんずる): to perform, to play 公演(こうえん): public performance 主演(しゅえん): starring, playing the leading part 出演(しゅつえん): performance, stage appearance 上演(じょうえん): performance (e.g. music) 演技(えんぎ): acting, performance 演劇(えんげき): theatre play 演説(えんぜつ): speech, address 演奏(えんそう): musical performance 講演(こうえん): lecture, address Kunyomi: Onyomi: エン Lesson: 55 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"	"performance 演 画数14 2163 Details Story Dictionary 演 performance My Story You'll ENJOY the performance. A stream of *water* falls on a *crown*, causing it to topple onto a *TNT plunger* which crushes some *animal legs* and blows up the whole theater!! Koohii #1 Studies have shown that Rocky's PERFORMANCE increases if he downs WATER mixed with gatorade while in a match. Koohii #2 I remember seeing advertisements growing up with the sign of the tiger saying to ""Put a tiger in your tank"", meaning that it would increase the performance of the drops of gasoline you put in. Primitives performance, water, water droplets, water pistol, sign of the tiger, house, caterpillar, one, ceiling, sprout, shoot, animal legs, eight 演習(えんしゅう): practice, exercises, manoeuvers 演出(えんしゅつ): production (e.g. play), direction 演じる(えんじる): to perform (a play), to play (a part), to act (a part), to commit (a blunder) 演ずる(えんずる): to perform, to play 公演(こうえん): public performance 主演(しゅえん): starring, playing the leading part 出演(しゅつえん): performance, stage appearance 上演(じょうえん): performance (e.g. music) 演技(えんぎ): acting, performance 演劇(えんげき): theatre play 演説(えんぜつ): speech, address 演奏(えんそう): musical performance 講演(こうえん): lecture, address Kunyomi: Onyomi: エン Lesson: 55 Jouyou: 5 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds:"
"sign of the dragon Details Story Dictionary 辰 sign of the dragon Heisig's Cliff . . . two . . . hairpins. Koohii #1 I'm going with the Mortal Kombat Symbol, as it's the closest thing to a sign of the dragon I know. In that game, there's a place called the pit to which you can throw your opponent on round two, but only with a hairpin punch. Koohii #2 The kid said ""I don´t believe you! Dragons don´t exist!"" so we made a little surprise for him: we pinned a huge dragon (it was just a sign really) on a nearby cliff. ""Whoaaa! Dragon!"" the kid said. ""But why won´t it move?"" ""I tell you why, cause it´s pinned there with two hairpins"" I thought to myself. Primitives sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin Kunyomi: たつ Onyomi: シン、ジン Lesson: 55 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"sign of the dragon 辰 画数7 2164 Details Story Dictionary 辰 sign of the dragon Heisig's Cliff . . . two . . . hairpins. Koohii #1 I'm going with the Mortal Kombat Symbol, as it's the closest thing to a sign of the dragon I know. In that game, there's a place called the pit to which you can throw your opponent on round two, but only with a hairpin punch. Koohii #2 The kid said ""I don´t believe you! Dragons don´t exist!"" so we made a little surprise for him: we pinned a huge dragon (it was just a sign really) on a nearby cliff. ""Whoaaa! Dragon!"" the kid said. ""But why won´t it move?"" ""I tell you why, cause it´s pinned there with two hairpins"" I thought to myself. Primitives sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin Kunyomi: たつ Onyomi: シン、ジン Lesson: 55 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
embarrass Details Story Dictionary 辱 embarrass Heisig's Sign of the dragon . . . glue. Koohii #1 If you get too close to a fire-breathing dragon, your skin can turn red from the burn. When someone is embarrassed, it's as though they have this sign of the dragon stuck to their face. Koohii #2 The sign of the dragon falls off the cliff, to our great embarassment (see sign of the dragon (#2008)) We should have glued it there! Primitives embarrass, sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin, glue 侮辱(ぶじょく): insult, contempt, slight Kunyomi: はずかし.める Onyomi: ジョク Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 辱める (はずかし.める)	embarrass 辱 画数10 2165 Details Story Dictionary 辱 embarrass Heisig's Sign of the dragon . . . glue. Koohii #1 If you get too close to a fire-breathing dragon, your skin can turn red from the burn. When someone is embarrassed, it's as though they have this sign of the dragon stuck to their face. Koohii #2 The sign of the dragon falls off the cliff, to our great embarassment (see sign of the dragon (#2008)) We should have glued it there! Primitives embarrass, sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin, glue 侮辱(ぶじょく): insult, contempt, slight Kunyomi: はずかし.める Onyomi: ジョク Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 辱める (はずかし.める)
quake Details Story Dictionary 震 quake Heisig's Weather . . . sign of the dragon. Koohii #1 An earthquake is a sign that a dragon is awakening after a heavy rain... It is angry for having been woken up and it makes the earth thunder and quake above it. Koohii #2 Instant mythology: When heavy rains disturb a dragon hiding under the earth, an earthquake may result. Primitives quake, rain, weather, sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin 震わせる(ふるわせる): to be shaking, to be trembling 震える(ふるえる): shiver, shake, quake 地震(じしん): earthquake Kunyomi: ふる.う、ふる.える Onyomi: シン Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 震う (ふる.う), 震える (ふる.える)	quake 震 画数15 2166 Details Story Dictionary 震 quake Heisig's Weather . . . sign of the dragon. Koohii #1 An earthquake is a sign that a dragon is awakening after a heavy rain... It is angry for having been woken up and it makes the earth thunder and quake above it. Koohii #2 Instant mythology: When heavy rains disturb a dragon hiding under the earth, an earthquake may result. Primitives quake, rain, weather, sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin 震わせる(ふるわせる): to be shaking, to be trembling 震える(ふるえる): shiver, shake, quake 地震(じしん): earthquake Kunyomi: ふる.う、ふる.える Onyomi: シン Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 震う (ふる.う), 震える (ふる.える)
shake Details Story Dictionary 振 shake My Story [My nigga MO + Payback (kanji damage)] *My Nigga MO* had to shake his ass to *payback* his debt Koohii #1 Your mother shakes herfinger violently - no, no, no - no Mortal Kombat today! Koohii #2 If you're talking to someone and notice that theirfingers are starting to shake, it's often a sign of the dragon being behind you where the other person can see him coming. Primitives shake, finger, fingers, sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin 振興(しんこう): promotion, encouragement 振動(しんどう): oscillation, vibration 久し振り(ひさしぶり): after a long time 不振(ふしん): dullness, depression, slump, stagnation 振り(ふり): pretence, show, appearance 振り出し(ふりだし): outset, starting point, drawing or issuing (draft) 身振り(みぶり): gesture 振り仮名(ふりがな): hiragana over kanji, pronunciation key 振る(ふる): wave, shake, swing, sprinkle, cast (actor), allocate (work) 振舞う(ふるまう): behave, conduct oneself, entertain Kunyomi: ふ.る、ぶ.る、ふ.り、-ぶ.り、ふ.るう Onyomi: シン Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 振る (ふ.る), 振るう (ふ.るう)	shake 振 画数10 2167 Details Story Dictionary 振 shake My Story [My nigga MO + Payback (kanji damage)] *My Nigga MO* had to shake his ass to *payback* his debt Koohii #1 Your mother shakes herfinger violently - no, no, no - no Mortal Kombat today! Koohii #2 If you're talking to someone and notice that theirfingers are starting to shake, it's often a sign of the dragon being behind you where the other person can see him coming. Primitives shake, finger, fingers, sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin 振興(しんこう): promotion, encouragement 振動(しんどう): oscillation, vibration 久し振り(ひさしぶり): after a long time 不振(ふしん): dullness, depression, slump, stagnation 振り(ふり): pretence, show, appearance 振り出し(ふりだし): outset, starting point, drawing or issuing (draft) 身振り(みぶり): gesture 振り仮名(ふりがな): hiragana over kanji, pronunciation key 振る(ふる): wave, shake, swing, sprinkle, cast (actor), allocate (work) 振舞う(ふるまう): behave, conduct oneself, entertain Kunyomi: ふ.る、ぶ.る、ふ.り、-ぶ.り、ふ.るう Onyomi: シン Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 振る (ふ.る), 振るう (ふ.るう)
"with child Details Story Dictionary 娠 with child Heisig's Woman . . . sign of the dragon. The key word is a synonym for pregnant, whose character we met earlier (Frame 546). Although the two kanji are often used together, they should be kept distinct. Koohii #1 A woman who is with child can't be sacrificed to the dragon; virgins only need apply. Koohii #2 The woman hides the dragon from poachers under her shirt, pretending she's with child. ""Seen any sign of the dragon?"" ask the poachers. ""Nope, haven't seen him,"" replies the woman. Primitives with child, woman, sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin 妊娠(にんしん): conception, pregnancy Kunyomi: Onyomi: シン Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"with child 娠 画数10 2168 Details Story Dictionary 娠 with child Heisig's Woman . . . sign of the dragon. The key word is a synonym for pregnant, whose character we met earlier (Frame 546). Although the two kanji are often used together, they should be kept distinct. Koohii #1 A woman who is with child can't be sacrificed to the dragon; virgins only need apply. Koohii #2 The woman hides the dragon from poachers under her shirt, pretending she's with child. ""Seen any sign of the dragon?"" ask the poachers. ""Nope, haven't seen him,"" replies the woman. Primitives with child, woman, sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin 妊娠(にんしん): conception, pregnancy Kunyomi: Onyomi: シン Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
lips Details Story Dictionary 唇 lips Heisig's Sign of the dragon . . . mouth. Koohii #1 Sign of the Dragon + Mouth: Lips need chapstick during the wintertime so they don't look like the sign of the dragon who kissed you on the mouth. Koohii #2 As I approached her lips, I began to sense the sign of the dragon breath coming from her mouth, and I almost fainted. Primitives lips, sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin, mouth 唇(くちびる): lips Kunyomi: くちびる Onyomi: シン Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 唇 (くちびる)	lips 唇 画数10 2169 Details Story Dictionary 唇 lips Heisig's Sign of the dragon . . . mouth. Koohii #1 Sign of the Dragon + Mouth: Lips need chapstick during the wintertime so they don't look like the sign of the dragon who kissed you on the mouth. Koohii #2 As I approached her lips, I began to sense the sign of the dragon breath coming from her mouth, and I almost fainted. Primitives lips, sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin, mouth 唇(くちびる): lips Kunyomi: くちびる Onyomi: シン Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 唇 (くちびる)
agriculture Details Story Dictionary 農 agriculture Heisig's Bend . . . sign of the dragon. Koohii #1 Imagine if you could bend a dragon to your will. Helpful in war, yes, but also a boon for agriculture. The dragon could use its sharp claws to plough the ground, and use its firey breath to clear the land. But first you'd have to bend the dragon to your will -- not an easy task. Koohii #2 It's a good agricultural sign when, as the farmer is bending down, he discovers some plants arranged in the sign of the dragon. It means the weather and earth will be supportive of the crops. Primitives agriculture, bend, sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin 農耕(のうこう): farming, agriculture 農場(のうじょう): farm (agriculture) 農村(のうそん): agricultural community, farm village, rural 農地(のうち): agricultural land 酪農(らくのう): dairy (farm) 農家(のうか): farmer, farm family 農業(のうぎょう): agriculture 農産物(のうさんぶつ): agricultural produce 農民(のうみん): farmers, peasants 農薬(のうやく): agricultural chemicals Kunyomi: Onyomi: ノウ Lesson: 55 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:	agriculture 農 画数13 2170 Details Story Dictionary 農 agriculture Heisig's Bend . . . sign of the dragon. Koohii #1 Imagine if you could bend a dragon to your will. Helpful in war, yes, but also a boon for agriculture. The dragon could use its sharp claws to plough the ground, and use its firey breath to clear the land. But first you'd have to bend the dragon to your will -- not an easy task. Koohii #2 It's a good agricultural sign when, as the farmer is bending down, he discovers some plants arranged in the sign of the dragon. It means the weather and earth will be supportive of the crops. Primitives agriculture, bend, sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin 農耕(のうこう): farming, agriculture 農場(のうじょう): farm (agriculture) 農村(のうそん): agricultural community, farm village, rural 農地(のうち): agricultural land 酪農(らくのう): dairy (farm) 農家(のうか): farmer, farm family 農業(のうぎょう): agriculture 農産物(のうさんぶつ): agricultural produce 農民(のうみん): farmers, peasants 農薬(のうやく): agricultural chemicals Kunyomi: Onyomi: ノウ Lesson: 55 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 2 Compounds:
concentrated Details Story Dictionary 濃 concentrated Heisig's Among other things, the key word refers to the thick consistency of liquids. Its elements: water . . . agriculture. Koohii #1 The agriculture of Florida is concentrated on making concentrated orange juice. Just add water! Imagine a can of FCOJ, dumping it into a pitcher and adding water. Koohii #2 Concentrated water is going to revolutionize the agriculture! Just add water... oh wait... Primitives concentrated, water, water droplets, water pistol, agriculture, bend, sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin 濃い(こい): thick (as of color, liquid), dense, strong 濃度(のうど): concentration, brightness Kunyomi: こ.い Onyomi: ノウ Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 濃い (こ.い)	concentrated 濃 画数16 2171 Details Story Dictionary 濃 concentrated Heisig's Among other things, the key word refers to the thick consistency of liquids. Its elements: water . . . agriculture. Koohii #1 The agriculture of Florida is concentrated on making concentrated orange juice. Just add water! Imagine a can of FCOJ, dumping it into a pitcher and adding water. Koohii #2 Concentrated water is going to revolutionize the agriculture! Just add water... oh wait... Primitives concentrated, water, water droplets, water pistol, agriculture, bend, sign of the dragon, cliff, two, hairpin, safety-pin 濃い(こい): thick (as of color, liquid), dense, strong 濃度(のうど): concentration, brightness Kunyomi: こ.い Onyomi: ノウ Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 濃い (こ.い)
send off Details Story Dictionary 送 send off Heisig's Road . . . golden calf. Koohii #1 The St Bernard with devilish animal horns must be non other than Cerberus, guard dog of the netherworld. In this frame Cerberus is seen along the road to hell, escorting those who have been sent off to join Hades in his realm. Koohii #2 The woolly mammoth got quite a send off before he wandered up that road never to be seen alive again. Primitives escort, send off, golden calf, horns, heavens, road 運送(うんそう): shipping, marine transportation 回送(かいそう): forwarding 送金(そうきん): remittance, sending money 送り仮名(おくりがな): kana written after a kanji to complete the full (usually kun) reading of the word 送る(おくる): send (a thing), take or escort (a person somewhere), see off (a person), spend a period of time, live a life 送別(そうべつ): farewell, send-off 送料(そうりょう): postage 見送り(みおくり): seeing one off, farewell, escort 見送る(みおくる): see off, escort, let pass, wait and see 郵送(ゆうそう): mailing 輸送(ゆそう): transport, transportation 放送(ほうそう): broadcasting Kunyomi: おく.る Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 55 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 送る (おく.る)	send off 送 画数9 2172 Details Story Dictionary 送 send off Heisig's Road . . . golden calf. Koohii #1 The St Bernard with devilish animal horns must be non other than Cerberus, guard dog of the netherworld. In this frame Cerberus is seen along the road to hell, escorting those who have been sent off to join Hades in his realm. Koohii #2 The woolly mammoth got quite a send off before he wandered up that road never to be seen alive again. Primitives escort, send off, golden calf, horns, heavens, road 運送(うんそう): shipping, marine transportation 回送(かいそう): forwarding 送金(そうきん): remittance, sending money 送り仮名(おくりがな): kana written after a kanji to complete the full (usually kun) reading of the word 送る(おくる): send (a thing), take or escort (a person somewhere), see off (a person), spend a period of time, live a life 送別(そうべつ): farewell, send-off 送料(そうりょう): postage 見送り(みおくり): seeing one off, farewell, escort 見送る(みおくる): see off, escort, let pass, wait and see 郵送(ゆうそう): mailing 輸送(ゆそう): transport, transportation 放送(ほうそう): broadcasting Kunyomi: おく.る Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 55 Jouyou: 3 JLPT Level: 4 Compounds: 送る (おく.る)
connection Details Story Dictionary 関 connection My Story [Gate + Horny Heavens] The *gate* to the *Horny Heavens* is my connection to God Koohii #1 At the airport, the woolly mammoth was too big. When he tried to go through his flight's gate he got stuck and missed his connecting flight. Koohii #2 The wooly mammoth Smashes the gates down restoring the connection between the glacier and the low lands. Primitives connection, gates, golden calf, horns, heavens 関与(かんよ): participation, taking part in, participating in, being concerned in 関税(かんぜい): customs, duty, tariff 関西(かんさい): Kansai (SW half of Japan, including Osaka) 関心(かんしん): concern, interest 関する(かんする): concern, be related 関東(かんとう): Kantou (eastern half of Japan, including Tokyo) 関連(かんれん): relation, connection, relevance 機関(きかん): organ, mechanism, facility, engine 機関車(きかんしゃ): locomotive, engine 交通機関(こうつうきかん): transportation facilities 税関(ぜいかん): customs house 関係(かんけい): relationship 玄関(げんかん): entranceway, entry hall Kunyomi: せき、-ぜき、かか.わる、からくり、かんぬき Onyomi: カン Lesson: 55 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 関 (せき)	connection 関 画数14 2173 Details Story Dictionary 関 connection My Story [Gate + Horny Heavens] The *gate* to the *Horny Heavens* is my connection to God Koohii #1 At the airport, the woolly mammoth was too big. When he tried to go through his flight's gate he got stuck and missed his connecting flight. Koohii #2 The wooly mammoth Smashes the gates down restoring the connection between the glacier and the low lands. Primitives connection, gates, golden calf, horns, heavens 関与(かんよ): participation, taking part in, participating in, being concerned in 関税(かんぜい): customs, duty, tariff 関西(かんさい): Kansai (SW half of Japan, including Osaka) 関心(かんしん): concern, interest 関する(かんする): concern, be related 関東(かんとう): Kantou (eastern half of Japan, including Tokyo) 関連(かんれん): relation, connection, relevance 機関(きかん): organ, mechanism, facility, engine 機関車(きかんしゃ): locomotive, engine 交通機関(こうつうきかん): transportation facilities 税関(ぜいかん): customs house 関係(かんけい): relationship 玄関(げんかん): entranceway, entry hall Kunyomi: せき、-ぜき、かか.わる、からくり、かんぬき Onyomi: カン Lesson: 55 Jouyou: 4 JLPT Level: 3 Compounds: 関 (せき)
blossom Details Story Dictionary 咲 blossom My Story [Mouth + Horny Heaven] When I put my *mouth* on a girl's snatch, she goes on a trip to the *horny heavens* where she blossoms into a goddess Koohii #1 The mouth of the wooly mammoth was so big and furry that plants would actually grow and blossom there. Koohii #2 From the mouth of the hell hound blossoms, not flowers, but evil spawns of DOOOOOOM. Primitives blossom, mouth, golden calf, horns, heavens 咲く(さく): to bloom Kunyomi: さ.く、-ざき Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 咲く (さ.く)	blossom 咲 画数9 2174 Details Story Dictionary 咲 blossom My Story [Mouth + Horny Heaven] When I put my *mouth* on a girl's snatch, she goes on a trip to the *horny heavens* where she blossoms into a goddess Koohii #1 The mouth of the wooly mammoth was so big and furry that plants would actually grow and blossom there. Koohii #2 From the mouth of the hell hound blossoms, not flowers, but evil spawns of DOOOOOOM. Primitives blossom, mouth, golden calf, horns, heavens 咲く(さく): to bloom Kunyomi: さ.く、-ざき Onyomi: ショウ Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 2 Compounds: 咲く (さ.く)
"ghost Details Story Dictionary 鬼 ghost Heisig's Drop of . . . brains . . . human legs . . . elbow. Koohii #1 鬼(おに) is not a ghost. An ogre or a troll would be a more fitting translation. Such a thing has but a drop of brains and uses its legs and elbows as deadly weapons (a concept which should be familiar from the license (#765) to kill). I'll use ""ogre"" for this. Koohii #2 A ghost, or oni, wandering slowly on its human legs, searching for brains to eat. What looks like an elbow here is actually a pictoral representation of the forked tail protruding out of its rear. Primitives ghost, oni, drop, brains, rice field, human legs, elbow 鬼(おに): ogre, demon Kunyomi: おに、おに- Onyomi: キ Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鬼 (おに)"	"ghost 鬼 画数10 2175 Details Story Dictionary 鬼 ghost Heisig's Drop of . . . brains . . . human legs . . . elbow. Koohii #1 鬼(おに) is not a ghost. An ogre or a troll would be a more fitting translation. Such a thing has but a drop of brains and uses its legs and elbows as deadly weapons (a concept which should be familiar from the license (#765) to kill). I'll use ""ogre"" for this. Koohii #2 A ghost, or oni, wandering slowly on its human legs, searching for brains to eat. What looks like an elbow here is actually a pictoral representation of the forked tail protruding out of its rear. Primitives ghost, oni, drop, brains, rice field, human legs, elbow 鬼(おに): ogre, demon Kunyomi: おに、おに- Onyomi: キ Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 鬼 (おに)"
ugly Details Story Dictionary 醜 ugly Heisig's Whiskey bottle . . . ghost. Koohii #1 The ugly oni can´t get a date so he drinks sake by himself at the bar. Koohii #2 Drinking too much whisky can make you as ugly as an oni. Primitives ugly, whiskey bottle, ghost, oni, drop, brains, rice field, human legs, elbow 醜い(みにくい): ugly Kunyomi: みにく.い、しこ Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 醜い (みにく.い)	ugly 醜 画数17 2176 Details Story Dictionary 醜 ugly Heisig's Whiskey bottle . . . ghost. Koohii #1 The ugly oni can´t get a date so he drinks sake by himself at the bar. Koohii #2 Drinking too much whisky can make you as ugly as an oni. Primitives ugly, whiskey bottle, ghost, oni, drop, brains, rice field, human legs, elbow 醜い(みにくい): ugly Kunyomi: みにく.い、しこ Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 醜い (みにく.い)
soul Details Story Dictionary 魂 soul Heisig's Rising cloud of . . . ghosts. Koohii #1 When you die, your SOUL either goes to the RISING CLOUDS (heaven) or to the ONI (hell, the devil). Koohii #2 When we die, our soul rises up in a ghostlike rising cloud of mist up to heaven (we hope) (Adapted from darg_sama,28-10-2005). Primitives soul, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall, ghost, oni, drop, brains, rice field, human legs, elbow, elbow2 魂(こん): soul, spirit Kunyomi: たましい、たま Onyomi: コン Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 魂 (たましい)	soul 魂 画数14 2177 Details Story Dictionary 魂 soul Heisig's Rising cloud of . . . ghosts. Koohii #1 When you die, your SOUL either goes to the RISING CLOUDS (heaven) or to the ONI (hell, the devil). Koohii #2 When we die, our soul rises up in a ghostlike rising cloud of mist up to heaven (we hope) (Adapted from darg_sama,28-10-2005). Primitives soul, rising cloud, two, elbow, wall, ghost, oni, drop, brains, rice field, human legs, elbow, elbow2 魂(こん): soul, spirit Kunyomi: たましい、たま Onyomi: コン Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 魂 (たましい)
"witch Details Story Dictionary 魔 witch My Story *Caves* 广, sacred *groves* 林, and *demons* 鬼 are often associated with witches. So is the use of drugs, like *hemp* 麻. 魔女、まじょ, witch (cf *mago* or *mage*); 魔法、まほう, witchcraft, sorcery: 魔女は魔法を使うことができます, ""A witch is able to use witchcraft."" 魔術、まじゅつ, sorcery, black arts (cf ""magic""); 魔術師、まじゅつし, magician, illusionist. Koohii #1 This modern version of the witch lives in some hippie community. She smokes a lot of hemp, and spends the day talking to ghosts, which not surprisingly appears only to her. Koohii #2 The witch sold me some hemp that made me see ghosts don´t do drugs. Primitives witch, hemp, cliff, grove, tree, wood, ghost, oni, drop, brains, rice field, human legs, elbow, tree2, wood2 お邪魔します(おじゃまします): Excuse me for disturbing (interrupting) you 誤魔化す(ごまかす): to deceive, to falsify, to misrepresent 邪魔(じゃま): obstacle, intrusion 悪魔(あくま): evil spirit, devil, demon Kunyomi: Onyomi: マ Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"witch 魔 画数21 2178 Details Story Dictionary 魔 witch My Story *Caves* 广, sacred *groves* 林, and *demons* 鬼 are often associated with witches. So is the use of drugs, like *hemp* 麻. 魔女、まじょ, witch (cf *mago* or *mage*); 魔法、まほう, witchcraft, sorcery: 魔女は魔法を使うことができます, ""A witch is able to use witchcraft."" 魔術、まじゅつ, sorcery, black arts (cf ""magic""); 魔術師、まじゅつし, magician, illusionist. Koohii #1 This modern version of the witch lives in some hippie community. She smokes a lot of hemp, and spends the day talking to ghosts, which not surprisingly appears only to her. Koohii #2 The witch sold me some hemp that made me see ghosts don´t do drugs. Primitives witch, hemp, cliff, grove, tree, wood, ghost, oni, drop, brains, rice field, human legs, elbow, tree2, wood2 お邪魔します(おじゃまします): Excuse me for disturbing (interrupting) you 誤魔化す(ごまかす): to deceive, to falsify, to misrepresent 邪魔(じゃま): obstacle, intrusion 悪魔(あくま): evil spirit, devil, demon Kunyomi: Onyomi: マ Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"fascination Details Story Dictionary 魅 fascination Heisig's Ghost . . . not yet. Koohii #1 Ghosts have not yet left the world, they must still have a deep fascination with their past life on Earth. Koohii #2 Here the ""Ghostbusters"" founder talks about his fascination for ghosts (picture Dan Arkroyd in the movie if that helps). He says he has a fascination for ghosts ever since he saw one as a teenager. Since then he´s been scouring all of the world, trying to capture them on tape, on video... A journalist asks ""When will it end ? Aren´t you tired of chasing ghosts ?"" ""Oh no, not yet ! Not until I become a ghost myself anyway !"". Primitives fascination, ghost, oni, drop, brains, rice field, human legs, elbow, not yet, one, tree, wood 魅力(みりょく): charm, fascination, glamour Kunyomi: Onyomi: ミ Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"fascination 魅 画数15 2179 Details Story Dictionary 魅 fascination Heisig's Ghost . . . not yet. Koohii #1 Ghosts have not yet left the world, they must still have a deep fascination with their past life on Earth. Koohii #2 Here the ""Ghostbusters"" founder talks about his fascination for ghosts (picture Dan Arkroyd in the movie if that helps). He says he has a fascination for ghosts ever since he saw one as a teenager. Since then he´s been scouring all of the world, trying to capture them on tape, on video... A journalist asks ""When will it end ? Aren´t you tired of chasing ghosts ?"" ""Oh no, not yet ! Not until I become a ghost myself anyway !"". Primitives fascination, ghost, oni, drop, brains, rice field, human legs, elbow, not yet, one, tree, wood 魅力(みりょく): charm, fascination, glamour Kunyomi: Onyomi: ミ Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
clod Details Story Dictionary 塊 clod Heisig's Soil . . . ghost. Koohii #1 Without any weapons, our only defense was to throw clods of dirt at the advancing oni horde. (Adapted from dingomick because zombie was used as a primitive for drag+rag). Koohii #2 All too often I find myself vaccuming clods of dirt with my Dirt Devil. Primitives clod, soil, dirt, ground, ghost, oni, drop, brains, rice field, human legs, elbow 塊(かたまり): lump, mass, clod, cluster Kunyomi: かたまり、つちくれ Onyomi: カイ、ケ Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 塊 (かたまり)	clod 塊 画数13 2180 Details Story Dictionary 塊 clod Heisig's Soil . . . ghost. Koohii #1 Without any weapons, our only defense was to throw clods of dirt at the advancing oni horde. (Adapted from dingomick because zombie was used as a primitive for drag+rag). Koohii #2 All too often I find myself vaccuming clods of dirt with my Dirt Devil. Primitives clod, soil, dirt, ground, ghost, oni, drop, brains, rice field, human legs, elbow 塊(かたまり): lump, mass, clod, cluster Kunyomi: かたまり、つちくれ Onyomi: カイ、ケ Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 塊 (かたまり)
"attack Details Story Dictionary 襲 attack Heisig's Vase . . . meat . . . slingshot (doubled up with) snake . . . three . . . garment. The top half of this character is the old form for the kanji in frame 575. Koohii #1 The top 16 strokes are the chinese radical for ""dragon"". Joining up both meanings of the radical we can name the top part of this kanji ""imperial dragon"". Two-headed snakes do exist as biological curiosities, and they look a bit like a slingshot (with the heads splitting at a junction). Our imperial dragon here, the pet of a Chinese emperor, is a rare ""three-headed slingshot-snake"" kept in a vase and fed with meat. When the emperor attacked neighbours, his army wore the imperial dragon garment. Koohii #2 You attack an old dragon 龍 and take his clothes. REF: dragon [old] (#2981). Primitives attack, old dragon, vase, stand up, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, slingshot, catapult, snake, self, three, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment, dragon* 襲う(おそう): to attack 襲撃(しゅうげき): attack, charge, raid Kunyomi: おそ.う、かさ.ね Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 襲う (おそ.う)"	"attack 襲 画数22 2181 Details Story Dictionary 襲 attack Heisig's Vase . . . meat . . . slingshot (doubled up with) snake . . . three . . . garment. The top half of this character is the old form for the kanji in frame 575. Koohii #1 The top 16 strokes are the chinese radical for ""dragon"". Joining up both meanings of the radical we can name the top part of this kanji ""imperial dragon"". Two-headed snakes do exist as biological curiosities, and they look a bit like a slingshot (with the heads splitting at a junction). Our imperial dragon here, the pet of a Chinese emperor, is a rare ""three-headed slingshot-snake"" kept in a vase and fed with meat. When the emperor attacked neighbours, his army wore the imperial dragon garment. Koohii #2 You attack an old dragon 龍 and take his clothes. REF: dragon [old] (#2981). Primitives attack, old dragon, vase, stand up, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, slingshot, catapult, snake, self, three, cloth, clothes, clothing, garment, dragon* 襲う(おそう): to attack 襲撃(しゅうげき): attack, charge, raid Kunyomi: おそ.う、かさ.ね Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 55 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 襲う (おそ.う)"
"upbraid Details Story Dictionary 嚇 upbraid Heisig's Koohii #1 To upbraid someone, you criticize them in a menacing way. In other words, you jaw at them with your MOUTH until both sides of their face turn RED (hence the double-red). Koohii #2 Tip: Heisig later names 赫 ""red + red"" as incandescent (#2908). Story: ""So the boss upbraided you, huh?"". ""Yep, his mouth was incandescent. Primitives menacing, upbraid, mouth, incandescent, red, red2 Kunyomi: おど.かす Onyomi: カク Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"upbraid 嚇 画数17 2182 Details Story Dictionary 嚇 upbraid Heisig's Koohii #1 To upbraid someone, you criticize them in a menacing way. In other words, you jaw at them with your MOUTH until both sides of their face turn RED (hence the double-red). Koohii #2 Tip: Heisig later names 赫 ""red + red"" as incandescent (#2908). Story: ""So the boss upbraided you, huh?"". ""Yep, his mouth was incandescent. Primitives menacing, upbraid, mouth, incandescent, red, red2 Kunyomi: おど.かす Onyomi: カク Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"majestic plural Details Story Dictionary 朕 majestic plural Heisig's Koohii #1 The queen is not happy. ""We (majestic plural) are not amused that the hunger for the flesh of the wooly mammoth has caused it's extinction. Poor Charles is particularly upset. Koohii #2 The king says ""Only We are allowed to partake of the flesh of the golden calf."". Primitives majestic plural, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, golden calf, horns, heavens Kunyomi: Onyomi: チン Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"majestic plural 朕 画数10 2183 Details Story Dictionary 朕 majestic plural Heisig's Koohii #1 The queen is not happy. ""We (majestic plural) are not amused that the hunger for the flesh of the wooly mammoth has caused it's extinction. Poor Charles is particularly upset. Koohii #2 The king says ""Only We are allowed to partake of the flesh of the golden calf."". Primitives majestic plural, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, golden calf, horns, heavens Kunyomi: Onyomi: チン Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"atmosphere Details Story Dictionary 雰 atmosphere My Story [Rain + understand] Looks like an old and stoned cat ** hits DMT pipe **, "" With the pouring of the rain, I will soon come to understand the true nature of the universe and its atmosphere "" Koohii #1 The part of the sky that is responsible for weather and rain is known as the atmosphere. It only occupies part of the sky though. Koohii #2 (This is atmosphere as in ambiance, mood). Rain is only part of the atmosphere for a romantic porch date. Food, music, and candles are the rest. Primitives atmosphere, rain, weather, part 雰囲気(ふんいき): atmosphere (e.g. musical), mood, ambience Kunyomi: Onyomi: フン Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"atmosphere 雰 画数12 2184 Details Story Dictionary 雰 atmosphere My Story [Rain + understand] Looks like an old and stoned cat ** hits DMT pipe **, "" With the pouring of the rain, I will soon come to understand the true nature of the universe and its atmosphere "" Koohii #1 The part of the sky that is responsible for weather and rain is known as the atmosphere. It only occupies part of the sky though. Koohii #2 (This is atmosphere as in ambiance, mood). Rain is only part of the atmosphere for a romantic porch date. Food, music, and candles are the rest. Primitives atmosphere, rain, weather, part 雰囲気(ふんいき): atmosphere (e.g. musical), mood, ambience Kunyomi: Onyomi: フン Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
"item Details Story Dictionary 箇 item Heisig's Koohii #1 Dragon Quest - You find a hardened bamboo stick, perfect for a weapon, but you can´t pick it up because your items are full. Koohii #2 You´ve entered in a chinese shop where apparently the only item in sale is old, dusty, hardened bamboo (for construction for example). It looks like these items have been there forever. Asking the clerk if anything else is available, he doesn´t understand and instead asks - ""Two items? Three items?"" (the kanji is a counter for items) - thinking you want to buy something. Primitives item, bamboo, harden, pent in, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 箇所(かしょ): passage, place, point, part 箇条書き(かじょうがき): itemized form, itemization 箇箇(ここ): individual, separate Kunyomi: Onyomi: カ、コ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"	"item 箇 画数14 2185 Details Story Dictionary 箇 item Heisig's Koohii #1 Dragon Quest - You find a hardened bamboo stick, perfect for a weapon, but you can´t pick it up because your items are full. Koohii #2 You´ve entered in a chinese shop where apparently the only item in sale is old, dusty, hardened bamboo (for construction for example). It looks like these items have been there forever. Asking the clerk if anything else is available, he doesn´t understand and instead asks - ""Two items? Three items?"" (the kanji is a counter for items) - thinking you want to buy something. Primitives item, bamboo, harden, pent in, old, tombstone, gravestone, church, ten, needle, mouth 箇所(かしょ): passage, place, point, part 箇条書き(かじょうがき): itemized form, itemization 箇箇(ここ): individual, separate Kunyomi: Onyomi: カ、コ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:"
tempering Details Story Dictionary 錬 tempering Heisig's Koohii #1 In the East, especially Japan ...there are masters of tempering metal to great strength....on the Spring of Trivia show in Japan I saw how a Japanese sword ...actually split flying bullets...all because of special Eastern tempering techniques. Koohii #2 Tempering should be done with the metal facing east. (If not, the metal may pick up the earth´s magnetic field). Primitives tempering, metal, gold, east, tree, wood, sun, day Kunyomi: ね.る Onyomi: レン Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	tempering 錬 画数16 2186 Details Story Dictionary 錬 tempering Heisig's Koohii #1 In the East, especially Japan ...there are masters of tempering metal to great strength....on the Spring of Trivia show in Japan I saw how a Japanese sword ...actually split flying bullets...all because of special Eastern tempering techniques. Koohii #2 Tempering should be done with the metal facing east. (If not, the metal may pick up the earth´s magnetic field). Primitives tempering, metal, gold, east, tree, wood, sun, day Kunyomi: ね.る Onyomi: レン Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
abide by Details Story Dictionary 遵 abide by Heisig's Koohii #1 You must abide by the revered rules of the road! No devil´s brew and stay glued to your lane in the road! Koohii #2 Even the most revered person must still abide by the rules of the road -- no exceptions are granted to anyone. Primitives abide by, revered, Mother Teresa, chieftain, Molotov cocktail, animal horns, whiskey bottle, glue, road Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジュン Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	abide by 遵 画数15 2187 Details Story Dictionary 遵 abide by Heisig's Koohii #1 You must abide by the revered rules of the road! No devil´s brew and stay glued to your lane in the road! Koohii #2 Even the most revered person must still abide by the rules of the road -- no exceptions are granted to anyone. Primitives abide by, revered, Mother Teresa, chieftain, Molotov cocktail, animal horns, whiskey bottle, glue, road Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジュン Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
quit Details Story Dictionary 罷 quit Heisig's Koohii #1 Hey, screw you! Don´t you look down on me! I have the ability to quit anytime I want! Koohii #2 My eye doesn´t seem to have the ability to quit staring at her...　　　　　RTK2:　ヒ　罷業　ひぎょう(a walkout). Primitives quit, eye, cross-eyed, net, ability, elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 Kunyomi: まか.り-、や.める Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	quit 罷 画数15 2188 Details Story Dictionary 罷 quit Heisig's Koohii #1 Hey, screw you! Don´t you look down on me! I have the ability to quit anytime I want! Koohii #2 My eye doesn´t seem to have the ability to quit staring at her...　　　　　RTK2:　ヒ　罷業　ひぎょう(a walkout). Primitives quit, eye, cross-eyed, net, ability, elbow, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, spoon, sitting on the ground, spoon2, sitting on the ground2 Kunyomi: まか.り-、や.める Onyomi: ヒ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
barracks Details Story Dictionary 屯 barracks Heisig's Koohii #1 The game characters from Worms sleep in their barracks at night. Koohii #2 Earthworm jim sleeps in a barracks because he is a soldier... apparently. Primitives barracks, earthworm, drop, shovel, fishhook Kunyomi: Onyomi: トン Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	barracks 屯 画数4 2189 Details Story Dictionary 屯 barracks Heisig's Koohii #1 The game characters from Worms sleep in their barracks at night. Koohii #2 Earthworm jim sleeps in a barracks because he is a soldier... apparently. Primitives barracks, earthworm, drop, shovel, fishhook Kunyomi: Onyomi: トン Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
"moreover Details Story Dictionary 且 moreover Heisig's Koohii #1 Moreover is a literary term to shelve what you had just been talking about, to come back to it later. Koohii #2 Same as darg_sama. Play on words. I imagine visiting someone who has an impressive collection of medals and trophies (chess champion, for example). After spending an hour showing you all the trophies in the glass shelf, you think ""Whew! It´s over."" ... but the person says ""... and wait, there´s ""moreover"" !"", pointing at more trophies lined atop the glass shelf. Primitives moreover, shelf, my bookshelves 且つ(かつ): yet, and Kunyomi: か.つ Onyomi: ショ、ソ、ショウ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 且つ (か.つ)"	"moreover 且 画数5 2190 Details Story Dictionary 且 moreover Heisig's Koohii #1 Moreover is a literary term to shelve what you had just been talking about, to come back to it later. Koohii #2 Same as darg_sama. Play on words. I imagine visiting someone who has an impressive collection of medals and trophies (chess champion, for example). After spending an hour showing you all the trophies in the glass shelf, you think ""Whew! It´s over."" ... but the person says ""... and wait, there´s ""moreover"" !"", pointing at more trophies lined atop the glass shelf. Primitives moreover, shelf, my bookshelves 且つ(かつ): yet, and Kunyomi: か.つ Onyomi: ショ、ソ、ショウ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 且つ (か.つ)"
seaweed Details Story Dictionary 藻 seaweed Heisig's Koohii #1 Goods + wood = paper. You know how nori, ie: seaweed, comes in sheets for putting in your ramen or for your sushi? Well that's because it's water paper! Seaweed is also a sea flower of sorts, so it all just works out. Koohii #2 Let wooden goods = furniture. Then: Walking along the sea shore you see some washed-up furniture with water (waves) splashing against it. From a distance it looks like flowers are growing out the top, but as you get closer you see it is in fact seaweed. Primitives seaweed, flowers, water, water droplets, water pistol, furniture, goods, mouth, tree, wood, mouth3 藻掻く(もがく): to struggle, to wriggle, to be impatient Kunyomi: も Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 藻 (も)	seaweed 藻 画数19 2191 Details Story Dictionary 藻 seaweed Heisig's Koohii #1 Goods + wood = paper. You know how nori, ie: seaweed, comes in sheets for putting in your ramen or for your sushi? Well that's because it's water paper! Seaweed is also a sea flower of sorts, so it all just works out. Koohii #2 Let wooden goods = furniture. Then: Walking along the sea shore you see some washed-up furniture with water (waves) splashing against it. From a distance it looks like flowers are growing out the top, but as you get closer you see it is in fact seaweed. Primitives seaweed, flowers, water, water droplets, water pistol, furniture, goods, mouth, tree, wood, mouth3 藻掻く(もがく): to struggle, to wriggle, to be impatient Kunyomi: も Onyomi: ソウ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 藻 (も)
slave Details Story Dictionary 隷 slave Heisig's Koohii #1 In an attempt to free them from being slaves to their desires, the samurai stands behind the altar likening a clear mind to a sieve that lets only the purest thoughts through. Koohii #2 Careful: retainer (#848). Think of slave in the virtual sense (a slave to your passions). The samurai is standing on the altar lecturing about goodwill (see goodwill (#1097)). He notices the boredom of most of the crowd. However some audience members are attentive about the message of goodwill. The samurai views his sermon as a sieve of character: those of good character pass through and see the merit; those of poor character - slaves to their passions - are blocked from understanding. Primitives slave, samurai, altar, show, two, small, sieve, rake, grains of rice Kunyomi: したが.う、しもべ Onyomi: レイ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	slave 隷 画数16 2192 Details Story Dictionary 隷 slave Heisig's Koohii #1 In an attempt to free them from being slaves to their desires, the samurai stands behind the altar likening a clear mind to a sieve that lets only the purest thoughts through. Koohii #2 Careful: retainer (#848). Think of slave in the virtual sense (a slave to your passions). The samurai is standing on the altar lecturing about goodwill (see goodwill (#1097)). He notices the boredom of most of the crowd. However some audience members are attentive about the message of goodwill. The samurai views his sermon as a sieve of character: those of good character pass through and see the merit; those of poor character - slaves to their passions - are blocked from understanding. Primitives slave, samurai, altar, show, two, small, sieve, rake, grains of rice Kunyomi: したが.う、しもべ Onyomi: レイ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
healing Details Story Dictionary 癒 healing Heisig's Koohii #1 (Think rpg!) We were in dire need of healing. Our party was fighting the cavemen, but we didn't fare too well. It was more like a butcher's meeting than a fight... just as they were about to pierce my heart, luckily a priest came along and used his healing spell in the nick of time (#2433). Koohii #2 Note: meeting of butchers + heart are later combined into 愈 in the nick of time (#2433). Story: For healing to take place, you must catch the sickness in the nick of time. Primitives healing, sickness, hospital, in the nick of time, meeting of butchers, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sword, sabre, saber, heart Kunyomi: い.える、いや.す Onyomi: ユ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	healing 癒 画数18 2193 Details Story Dictionary 癒 healing Heisig's Koohii #1 (Think rpg!) We were in dire need of healing. Our party was fighting the cavemen, but we didn't fare too well. It was more like a butcher's meeting than a fight... just as they were about to pierce my heart, luckily a priest came along and used his healing spell in the nick of time (#2433). Koohii #2 Note: meeting of butchers + heart are later combined into 愈 in the nick of time (#2433). Story: For healing to take place, you must catch the sickness in the nick of time. Primitives healing, sickness, hospital, in the nick of time, meeting of butchers, moon, month, flesh, part of the body, sword, sabre, saber, heart Kunyomi: い.える、いや.す Onyomi: ユ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
imperial seal Details Story Dictionary 璽 imperial seal Heisig's Koohii #1 The imperial seal is usually an impressive mark made with a jewel. However when the letter arrives it has been raining on it and you see that the drops of rain have been transformed into little x’s where some animal legs have run over it. Koohii #2 Primitives (to give correct stroke order): tool bench, towel, 4 Xs, jewel. Story: the Imperial Seal is like a kind of coat-of-arms the Emperor can stamp on stuff. Picture that coat-of-arms as depicting a big jewel (say, a diamond) with a motto on a banner above it saying 'let it be (#2074)'. (The emperor must have been a huge Beatles fan). Primitives imperial seal, let it be, noren, one, ceiling, eight, towel, stitching, patchwork quilt, jewel, earring Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	imperial seal 璽 画数19 2194 Details Story Dictionary 璽 imperial seal Heisig's Koohii #1 The imperial seal is usually an impressive mark made with a jewel. However when the letter arrives it has been raining on it and you see that the drops of rain have been transformed into little x’s where some animal legs have run over it. Koohii #2 Primitives (to give correct stroke order): tool bench, towel, 4 Xs, jewel. Story: the Imperial Seal is like a kind of coat-of-arms the Emperor can stamp on stuff. Picture that coat-of-arms as depicting a big jewel (say, a diamond) with a motto on a banner above it saying 'let it be (#2074)'. (The emperor must have been a huge Beatles fan). Primitives imperial seal, let it be, noren, one, ceiling, eight, towel, stitching, patchwork quilt, jewel, earring Kunyomi: Onyomi: ジ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
lagoon Details Story Dictionary 潟 lagoon Heisig's Koohii #1 Right part: mortar bound up over oven fire, comprising boiling cauldron. Lagoon is a shallow pond, thus easily warmed by sun, large-scale equivalent of a boiling cauldron. Koohii #2 I stapled both sides of some tail feathers to a waterfall towering over the lagoon to give it a more tropical feel…　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　On list of rare or no official Chinese reading. Primitives lagoon, water, water droplets, water pistol, mortar, tail feathers Kunyomi: かた、-がた Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 潟 (かた)	lagoon 潟 画数15 2195 Details Story Dictionary 潟 lagoon Heisig's Koohii #1 Right part: mortar bound up over oven fire, comprising boiling cauldron. Lagoon is a shallow pond, thus easily warmed by sun, large-scale equivalent of a boiling cauldron. Koohii #2 I stapled both sides of some tail feathers to a waterfall towering over the lagoon to give it a more tropical feel…　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　On list of rare or no official Chinese reading. Primitives lagoon, water, water droplets, water pistol, mortar, tail feathers Kunyomi: かた、-がた Onyomi: セキ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds: 潟 (かた)
cinnabar Details Story Dictionary 丹 cinnabar Heisig's Koohii #1 How about a rusty cinnabar colored dilapidated boat, found abandoned somewhere. The smoke-stack and the keel have fallen off... Koohii #2 Rusty old boat with the bottom and top missing. Primitives rust colored, cinnabar, ship´s funnel Kunyomi: に Onyomi: タン Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	cinnabar 丹 画数4 2196 Details Story Dictionary 丹 cinnabar Heisig's Koohii #1 How about a rusty cinnabar colored dilapidated boat, found abandoned somewhere. The smoke-stack and the keel have fallen off... Koohii #2 Rusty old boat with the bottom and top missing. Primitives rust colored, cinnabar, ship´s funnel Kunyomi: に Onyomi: タン Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
sign of the cow Details Story Dictionary 丑 sign of the cow Heisig's Koohii #1 Pictograph of a stanchion, which includes two vertical posts to restrain cows so they can be milked, with a horizontal stroke showing the number of cows per stanchion: one. A stanchion is a great symbol for the SIGN OF THE COW, since modern, domesticated cows are often stanchioned in barns. Koohii #2 77 cows behind a fence. Primitives sign of the cow, dagger, two Kunyomi: うし Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	sign of the cow 丑 画数5 2197 Details Story Dictionary 丑 sign of the cow Heisig's Koohii #1 Pictograph of a stanchion, which includes two vertical posts to restrain cows so they can be milked, with a horizontal stroke showing the number of cows per stanchion: one. A stanchion is a great symbol for the SIGN OF THE COW, since modern, domesticated cows are often stanchioned in barns. Koohii #2 77 cows behind a fence. Primitives sign of the cow, dagger, two Kunyomi: うし Onyomi: チュウ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
humiliate Details Story Dictionary 羞 humiliate Heisig's Wool . . sign of the cow. Koohii #1 The sheep had his coat shaven in the winter and a sign of th cow branded on him. How humiliating. Koohii #2 [+melchan] The sheep was humiliated by being branded with the sign of the cow (which is a major insult to anyone, even sheep) and tries to cover it up with it's wool. Kunyomi: すすめ.る、 はじ.る、 は.ずかしい Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:	humiliate 羞 画数11 2198 Details Story Dictionary 羞 humiliate Heisig's Wool . . sign of the cow. Koohii #1 The sheep had his coat shaven in the winter and a sign of th cow branded on him. How humiliating. Koohii #2 [+melchan] The sheep was humiliated by being branded with the sign of the cow (which is a major insult to anyone, even sheep) and tries to cover it up with it's wool. Kunyomi: すすめ.る、 はじ.る、 は.ずかしい Onyomi: シュウ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: JH JLPT Level: Compounds:
sign of the hare Details Story Dictionary 卯 sign of the hare Heisig's Koohii #1 You know how missing childrens´ pictures often appear on milk cartons? Well here we have a missing hare. His concerned family is having his picture printed on the backs of receipts and even on stamps. So far, however, there has been no SIGN OF THE HARE. Koohii #2 rabbit ears. Primitives sign of the hare, blown eggs 卯(ぼう): fourth sign of Chinese zodiac (The Hare 5am-7am east February) Kunyomi: う Onyomi: ボウ、モウ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	sign of the hare 卯 画数5 2199 Details Story Dictionary 卯 sign of the hare Heisig's Koohii #1 You know how missing childrens´ pictures often appear on milk cartons? Well here we have a missing hare. His concerned family is having his picture printed on the backs of receipts and even on stamps. So far, however, there has been no SIGN OF THE HARE. Koohii #2 rabbit ears. Primitives sign of the hare, blown eggs 卯(ぼう): fourth sign of Chinese zodiac (The Hare 5am-7am east February) Kunyomi: う Onyomi: ボウ、モウ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
sign of the snake Details Story Dictionary 巳 sign of the snake Heisig's Koohii #1 The 巳nd! Thanks all. Koohii #2 The snake likes stealing pieces from mosaics, so if you notice your mosaic has a piece missing, that’s a sign of the snake. Primitives sign of the snake, mosaic with bit missing Kunyomi: み Onyomi: シ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:	sign of the snake 巳 画数3 2200 Details Story Dictionary 巳 sign of the snake Heisig's Koohii #1 The 巳nd! Thanks all. Koohii #2 The snake likes stealing pieces from mosaics, so if you notice your mosaic has a piece missing, that’s a sign of the snake. Primitives sign of the snake, mosaic with bit missing Kunyomi: み Onyomi: シ Lesson: 56 Jouyou: Names JLPT Level: 1 Compounds:
quote / (prim: rising cloud) Details Story Dictionary 云 quote / (prim: rising cloud) My Story [二+ム] Sounds like Nemo. Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:	quote / (prim: rising cloud) 云 画数 2241 Details Story Dictionary 云 quote / (prim: rising cloud) My Story [二+ム] Sounds like Nemo. Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:
paralysis Details Story Dictionary 痺 paralysis My Story [become numb, paralysed] A sickness that plagues Chinese pirated DVDs is paralysis: The lowly discs often freeze during playback. (see 婢 (#2309). Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:	paralysis 痺 画数 2627 Details Story Dictionary 痺 paralysis My Story [become numb, paralysed] A sickness that plagues Chinese pirated DVDs is paralysis: The lowly discs often freeze during playback. (see 婢 (#2309). Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:
link up Details Story Dictionary 繋 link up My Story To link up CAR 車 (#304) with a MISSILE 殳? Almost as crazy as a thread 糸 (#1431). Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:	link up 繋 画数 2697 Details Story Dictionary 繋 link up My Story To link up CAR 車 (#304) with a MISSILE 殳? Almost as crazy as a thread 糸 (#1431). Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:
soy sauce Details Story Dictionary 醤 soy sauce My Story 醤油=醬油 {醤} ショウ(将) ... Parts:将, 酉 (cf: 将軍{将}, ... Story: The *Shogun/Leader* had conquered OVER his *alcohol* addiction, but had to still pretend, so he had bottles filled with Soy Sauce to keep appearances. Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:	soy sauce 醤 画数 2774 Details Story Dictionary 醤 soy sauce My Story 醤油=醬油 {醤} ショウ(将) ... Parts:将, 酉 (cf: 将軍{将}, ... Story: The *Shogun/Leader* had conquered OVER his *alcohol* addiction, but had to still pretend, so he had bottles filled with Soy Sauce to keep appearances. Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:
offspring Details Story Dictionary 甫 offspring My Story [#Dog Tag#] It was #not until# we lost him once that we decided to put a #dog tag# on our dog. Found in *catch* {捕}, *suckle* {哺}, *seaside* {浦}, *shop* {舗} ⇄ {鋪}, *supplement* {補} ⇄ {輔}, *veggie patch* {圃}, *creep* {匍} and *specialist ✦* {尃}. Names: {埔}, {鯆}. Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:	offspring 甫 画数 29995 Details Story Dictionary 甫 offspring My Story [#Dog Tag#] It was #not until# we lost him once that we decided to put a #dog tag# on our dog. Found in *catch* {捕}, *suckle* {哺}, *seaside* {浦}, *shop* {舗} ⇄ {鋪}, *supplement* {補} ⇄ {輔}, *veggie patch* {圃}, *creep* {匍} and *specialist ✦* {尃}. Names: {埔}, {鯆}. Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:
boil Details Story Dictionary 茹 boil My Story A poorly boiled *flower* will never touch a *woman's* *mouth* Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:	boil 茹 画数 33593 Details Story Dictionary 茹 boil My Story A poorly boiled *flower* will never touch a *woman's* *mouth* Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:
Unicode #36101 Details Story Dictionary 贅 Unicode #36101 My Story The taskmaster is *proud* {敖} of his *money* and spares no expense to live in #luxury#. Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:	Unicode #36101 贅 画数 36101 Details Story Dictionary 贅 Unicode #36101 My Story The taskmaster is *proud* {敖} of his *money* and spares no expense to live in #luxury#. Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:
gossip / rumor Details Story Dictionary 噂 gossip / rumor My Story [Mouth + esteem {尊}] I heard a #rumor# that *horny western alcoholics* are *glued* to Japanese women blowing them with their *mouths* When you spread #rumors#, your *mouth* messes with peoples' self-*esteem* Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:	gossip / rumor 噂 画数 2282 Details Story Dictionary 噂 gossip / rumor My Story [Mouth + esteem {尊}] I heard a #rumor# that *horny western alcoholics* are *glued* to Japanese women blowing them with their *mouths* When you spread #rumors#, your *mouth* messes with peoples' self-*esteem* Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:
fib / lie Details Story Dictionary 嘘 fib / lie My Story [Mouth + Empty/void (tiger + Hedgehog)] A *mouth* that tells #lies# is *empty* of truth. Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:	fib / lie 嘘 画数 2286 Details Story Dictionary 嘘 fib / lie My Story [Mouth + Empty/void (tiger + Hedgehog)] A *mouth* that tells #lies# is *empty* of truth. Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:
quarrel Details Story Dictionary 嘩 quarrel My Story [Mouth + splendor {華}] *Mouths* quarrel over who is more *splendid*. in a quarrel, each person tries to make the most *splendid* point come out of their *mouth* 喧嘩＝（けん）か Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:	quarrel 嘩 画数 2281 Details Story Dictionary 嘩 quarrel My Story [Mouth + splendor {華}] *Mouths* quarrel over who is more *splendid*. in a quarrel, each person tries to make the most *splendid* point come out of their *mouth* 喧嘩＝（けん）か Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:
clamor / Fligh / Quarrell Details Story Dictionary 喧 clamor / Fligh / Quarrell My Story [Mouth + Proclaim {宣}] To clamor means to open your *mouth* and *proclaim* loudly your opinions. Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:	clamor / Fligh / Quarrell 喧 画数 2284 Details Story Dictionary 喧 clamor / Fligh / Quarrell My Story [Mouth + Proclaim {宣}] To clamor means to open your *mouth* and *proclaim* loudly your opinions. Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:
chatter Details Story Dictionary 喋 chatter My Story [Mouth + Generation {世} + Tree] Older *Mouths* like to chatter about the new *generation* on the *tree*. Chattering *mouths* do nothing to save *generations* of *trees* being cut down worldwide. Greta Thunberg needs to take action. Looks like: {葉} Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:	chatter 喋 画数 2280 Details Story Dictionary 喋 chatter My Story [Mouth + Generation {世} + Tree] Older *Mouths* like to chatter about the new *generation* on the *tree*. Chattering *mouths* do nothing to save *generations* of *trees* being cut down worldwide. Greta Thunberg needs to take action. Looks like: {葉} Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:
buckwheat Details Story Dictionary 蕎 buckwheat My Story [Flower + angel ({橋} without the tree)] The Greek goddess Demeter exchanged a *flower* to save the *angels*, she was given buckwheat as a reward Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:	buckwheat 蕎 画数 2454 Details Story Dictionary 蕎 buckwheat My Story [Flower + angel ({橋} without the tree)] The Greek goddess Demeter exchanged a *flower* to save the *angels*, she was given buckwheat as a reward Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:
briefcase Details Story Dictionary 鞄 briefcase My Story [leather {革} + wrap {包}] I was on my way to a PETA meeting but they wouldn't let me bring in my *leather* briefcase in so I *wrapped* it with some cloth. Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:	briefcase 鞄 画数 2806 Details Story Dictionary 鞄 briefcase My Story [leather {革} + wrap {包}] I was on my way to a PETA meeting but they wouldn't let me bring in my *leather* briefcase in so I *wrapped* it with some cloth. Kunyomi: Onyomi: Lesson: Jouyou: Hyougai JLPT Level: 0 Compounds:
